This website offers functionality that requires JavaScript. To easily turn ON JavaScript you can follow the instructions provided on the following websites:Enable JavaScriptandWikiHow
SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, August 11, 2016
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Fong, Richards, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Wu
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 12:12 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Jeff Speirs, Nicholas Foster, Wayne Farrens, Andrew Perry, Aaron Starr, Steve Wertheim, Esmeralda Jardines, Doug Vu,and Jonas P. Ionin - Commission Secretary
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
None
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
1.2016-006168CUAGPR(N. FOSTER: (415) 575-9167)
752 VALLEJO STREET- north side of Vallejo, between Stockton Street and Emery Lane, Lot 012 in Assessor’s Block 0130 (District 3) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Section 722.83 and 303 to covert an existing, vacant tenant space on the ground floor of the subject building from Retail Sales and Services Use to Public Use. The subject tenant space would be utilized by the San Francisco Police Department (SFPD) for their Investigative Unit, which is currently located at the adjacent facility, Central Station, located at 766 Vallejo Street. Minor interior tenant improvements are proposed as part of the change of use, with no expansion of the existing building.The subject property is located within the North Beach Neighborhood Commercial District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
MOTION:19721
2.2016-002188CND(J. SPEIRS: (415) 575-9106)
172 - 174 LANGTON STREET-west side of Langton Street between Folsom and Harrison Streets; Lot 111 in Assessor’s Block 3755(District 9)- Request forCondominium Conversion Subdivisionto convert a three-story, six-unit building into residential condominiums within a RED (South Of Market Residential Enclave) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
MOTION:19722
3.2016-004186CND(W. FARRENS: (415) 575-9172)
360 LOCUST STREET- east side of Locus Street, between Sacramento and Clay Streets; Lot016inAssessor’s Block 1010 (District 1) - Request forCondominium Conversion Subdivisionto convert a three-story, six-unit building into residential condominiums within a RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
MOTION:19723
4.2016-002372CUA(W. FARRENS: (415) 575-9172)
559 DIVISADERO STREET-west side between Hayes and Fell Streets; Lot 002 in Assessor’s Block 1204 (District 5) - Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 746.27 to allow an extension of operating hours beyond 2:00 AM for an existing Restaurant (dba “Seniore’s Pizza”).The proposal is to extend closing time from 2:00 AM to 4:00 AM.The subject property is within the Divisadero Street NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and 65-A Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
MOTION:19724
5.2015-004423DRP(A. PERRY: (415) 575-9017)
460 NOE STREET- west side of Noe Street, between Ford and 18thStreets; Lot 010 in Assessor’s Block 3582 (District 8) - Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2015.03.27.2091, proposing construction of a three-story horizontal rear addition to an existing, three-story, three-unit building. The three-story addition will extend out to the average rear yard line; beyond the required rear yard, the project proposes a one-story pop-out structure at the ground floor with roof deck above. The project also includes the addition of a one-car garage that will contain three bicycle parking spaces, and the addition of a raised slope roof along the northern side to match the slope of the existing roof along the southern side. The property is located within a RH-3 (Residential House, Three-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis: Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Modifications
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Took DR and Approved with Modifications
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
DRA No:0478
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
6.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for July 28, 2016
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
7.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Jonas, if you could put those things up in a moment.I am going to make a statement, and this statement is available if you wish to receive it from Secretary Ionin.After fourteen years of service to San Francisco as a Planning Commissioner, I have chosen not to seek reappointment. I will greatly miss participation in the very important functions of the Planning Commission, but I wish to spend more time with my family, particularly three grandchildren, to travel, and to attend with family business matters. I am open to contributing to the advancement of land use needs of San Francisco in some other role in the future.
I wish to thank Mayors Brown, Newsom, and Lee for their confidence in having, collectively, appointed me to four terms as a Planning Commissioner, and also thank the many members of the Board of Supervisors who voted to confirm my appointments, thank the fellow Commissioners with whom I’ve had the pleasure to serve, thank Directors Green, Macris, and Rahaim, Zoning Administrators, Commission Secretaries Avery and Ionin, the City Attorneys, and the entire Planning staff- all of which were always courteous, responsive, and professional and-most of all- thank the citizens of San Francisco for their important input and ideas that have helped me to improve my decision making process.
I believe the Commission has accomplished much that is beneficial to improving the built environment of San Francisco. One of my stated goals in 2002 upon first assuming a seat on the Commission was to, “ make San Francisco the most desirable city in the United States in which to live, visit, and do business.” While much of that wish has been realized, many challenges still remain-a number of which have resulted from San Francisco’s increased desirability. As a result of the strong demand for commercial property, San Francisco likely faces an inadequate annual allowance of new office space relative to demand owing to restrictions codified in part of Proposition M. We are not building enough new housing to meet the huge demands for living space generated by San Francisco’s popularity.
The solutions to housing and office shortages are within sight. Approvals of Park Merced, Transbay, Hunters Point Shipyard- Candlestick Point, and Treasure Island projects along with Market Octavia, 5M, and Balboa Park Plans promise huge amounts of new housing, much of it affordable. Additionally, Eastern Neighborhoods Plans, if fully and rapidly implemented, will create thousands of new housing units. Regrettably, San Francisco has built very few, new single family homes in the last 15 years, a shortfall that adds to flight of families with children from The City.
Despite the production of thousands of supportive housing units, homelessness remains a major problem in San Francisco, requiring a multifaceted solution. A solution which must include treatment, enforcement of “quality of life” laws, and the provision of housing or voluntary relocation to meet the needs of all those homeless presently in San Francisco.
Central SOMA promises to provide a site for much of the projected demand for office space. Building more office space will have the additional benefit of lessening reverse commuting by San Francisco residents.
Hopefully, comprehensive long term solutions to transportation needs will be envisioned. Solutions to meet increased demands created by production of new housing and commercial space must include more subways, and transit in dedicated rights-of-way if we are to be able to attract ridership away from private vehicles. As a city we need to make a stronger case to federal and state funding sources regarding our transit needs as well as pass significant local funding measures to meet the costs of this vital transit.
It is a very exciting time in which to live in many of our nation’s urban areas. We are seeing the reversal of the suburbanization that characterized my generation with the current movement of large segments of younger generations to urban settings, creating more dense and sustainable environments. San Francisco is among the leaders in this reversal. It is exciting, in this regard, to see previously uninhabited or lightly inhabited areas like Mission Bay, Rincon Hill, Transbay, and others becoming vibrant new communities. And we are finally on the verge of seeing an arena in San Francisco thanks to the Golden State Warrior organization. The absence of an arena has been a defect in our city for over 50 years as we have lost the revenue from indoor sporting events, concerts, and conventions to other cities in the region.
Lastly, I want to once more thank all the Commissioners with which I have had the pleasure to serve. Without fail, you have been welcoming, supportive, and eager to compromise to craft projects that benefit our beloved City. I wish to dedicate my 14 years on the Commission to my late son, Peter, who tragically died in 2002 before he could begin his dream of serving San Francisco as a firefighter. Before he died, he knew of my first appointment and said, “That’s great, Planning is the best!” With Great Respect, Planning Commissioner Michael Antonini
Commissioner Fong:
Mike, let me be the first present commissioner to congratulate you and thank you, 14 years is a long haul of Thursdays nights and your dedication to the City, and to this Department, to the various directors, is phenomenal, as someone mentioned, I don't think the Planning Commission without Michael Antonini, they go synonymously. So, I thank you and good luck to you and enjoy things inside and outside of, beyond planning and I’m sure you've family is going to be very appreciative of getting their Thursday nights back with you.
Commissioner Richards:
I think it is kind of the end of an era, the Antonini era on the Commission. I first met you around 2008 on Market-Octavia and several projects in the neighborhood when I was the President of the Duboce Triangle Neighborhood Association for seven years. I really appreciated on that side of bar you listening to us in several issues, you actually voted for a position, and I really took it to heart. You're a good listener and you are able to collaborate and you do listen to the neighborhood. I had the fortunate event of serving with you in the Commission since 2014, I believe you're the first person I went to lunch with and it was a great learn, I learned a lot from you.I hope that your replacement is as diligent as your, open to collaboration, I know you have bright lines I have some bright lines that I don’t want to cross, but it is being good working with you, and we actually formed a coalitions where we got things done. So, thank you very much for your service.
Commissioner Moore:
I just wanted to thank you Commissioner Antonini for the length of time we've been sitting next to each other for 10 years, and it has been a indeed a pleasure. Thank you.
Commissioner Hillis:
Commissioner Antonini my thanks also, I got to know you first, as a city employee working with this Commission and your commitment and knowledge of the City, I think is unprecedented, your ability to meet with every project sponsor and visit every site, in seeming knowledge of every block of the City, and how it is different from a prior block is – something I think it is unprecedented. You’re stead fasting consistence in your views, and your position which is highly respected, but I think you advocated your views in a very respectful way, and in the end willing to compromise to get things done. I've appreciated my time on this Commission and thank you for your service.
Commissioner Richards:
I wanted to say one more thing, and not mess up the congratulations to Commissioner Antonini. In the communication by the Department on items related to land use, there was an article, I guess there was a segment on Channel 7 ABC, you can see on ABC 7 News.com. It was s about the fastest disappearing gas stations in the Bay Area, and what the impact is going to be in the future. A couple of quotes, Bryan Spears, who actually bought a gas station on upper Market Street and finally ended up developing it, it is calling The Lumina. Everyone is concerned about the fastest disappearing gas stations, and Spears quote in the article, he's acknowledged there is a part of the a growing problem, now it the time to have a conversation, in how people will get gas in the future. I think gas stations –- and I love to see more housing on where gas stations stand, but there comes a point, where we reach an inflection, where we still have cars that run on gas and we don’t anywhere to buy gas, he says, the time to have a conversation about people how to get gas is now. Tom Rudolovich, Executive Director of Livable Cities, in the article been quoted as saying: We need to look at the building code, planning code and really allow for some new way to be able to allow gas stations in places where people can get them, so it updates the changing needs of drivers. I think, since I've been on the Commission, we only have one gas station, that being on California, that actually wanted to stay in business, and of the 79 we had, I think we had 83, this article says we are 40 percent less. By 2017 if you start doing the math, one actually wants to stay in business and the other ones might want to go out of business. I think, is time we look at a census on this in the future, I think is going to be a problem. The share of electrical vehicles been purchased is no way, shape, or form, going up high enough to actually offsets the downward trend in gas station availability.
Commissioner Moore:
I'd like to ask the Commission to actually schedule an informal meeting on the subject matter. This is also to be brought in to context with our new attitude about TDM, where cars mostly travel because there is also the occasional driver who might find themselves on Lombard Street or somewhere without gas. We need to look at transportation mode, corridors, where gas stations supports the use of -- which corridor support the use of gas stations, etc. A big discussion, but I would very much like to have a meeting with the staff and the Commission to discuss that.
8.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Good afternoon, Commissioners I'll add on behalf of the departments staff our thanks to Commissioner Antonini for all your years of service.Commissioner, I always beenparticularly impressed by the hard nature of yours, in how seriously you have taken this position, reading the documents,talking to staffand visiting with us and theSanta Clause you played every year in the Department was very much appreciated.So, we thank you for your service, and I hope you stay in touch as the years go forward.Thank you.
9.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
None
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:Georgia Schuttish –Merged Units:In order to avoid unit mergers without proper review projects that list more than one unit on the SF property information website should be flagged for more review. This week this past Sunday there were 3 open homes in the $4.4 million range – selling ostensibly as single family homes that originally were 2 & 3 unit housing. This is 5 units. If you add in all makes 8, add in some that has been mentioned previously on San Carlos and Fair Oaks that makes 16. Then you can count those units that have been absorbed due to the loophole in Section 317(b)(7) that have been mentioned before that makes 20. They were all mentioned in my public comment of July 14th. Also a well-known building above a legacy business on 24thStreet where SF Property Map said three units ___ two were sold as the remodel = 25 units total in this submission cited.
Brett Gladstone – Commissioner Antonini
Dino Adelfio – Commissioner Antonini
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
10.2016-006221MAP(A. STARR: (415) 558-6362)
MIDTOWN TERRACE NEIGHBORHOOD REZONING-Zoning Map Amendmentto rezone the Midtown Terrace Neighborhood from RH-1 to RH-1(D) and to rezone 70 Skyview Way from P to RH-1(D); affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, Planning Code, Section 302, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution Recommending Approval
SPEAKERS:= Aaron Starr – Staff report
+ June Low, Aide to Supervisor Yee – Introduction
+ Rick Johnson – Midtown Terrace Neighborhood Association – Support
+ Norman Furuda – Support
+ George Wooding – Great idea
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
MOTION:19725
11.2011.1356MTZ(S. WERTHEIM: (415) 558-6612)
CENTRAL SOMA PLAN-Informational Presentation-ANNOUNCING THE RELEASE OF THE REVISED PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY - This presentation will be a high level overview of the revised Central SoMa Plan and accompanying Implementation Strategy, scheduled for publication on Planning’swebsiteon August 11, 2016. This hearing is intended to start the conversation about these revised documents. Subsequently, Planning will hold additional community conversations about the content of the Plan, including further public hearings and community meetings.The Draft Environmental Impact Report on the proposed plan is expected to be published this fall.For more information, go tohttp://centralsoma.sfplanning.org.
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational
SPEAKERS:= Steve Wertheim – Staff report
= David Brettlinger – Recreation
= Angelica Cabande – SOM CAM recommendations
= Maverick Ruiz – Suggestions
= (M) Speaker – Below market rate units
= Gerald Yu – Video
= Moe Jameel – Services
= Cynthia Gomez – Hotel projects
= Theresa Imperial – Design guidelines, cultural design, art, interpretive signage
= Erika Markinovich – Public lands, quality of life
= Chris Dorazo – Plan suggestions
= Kathy Delucca – Walk SF
= John Elberling – Arts community in SOMA, PDRA
= Okoro – Recommendations
= Sue Hestor – Central SOMA plans, transit
ACTION:None – Informational
12.2014.0503ENX(E. JARDINES:(415) 575-9144)
2600 HARRISON STREET- located on the west side of Harrison Street between 22ndand 23rdStreets, Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 3639 (District 9) - Request forLarge Project Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Section 329, for demolition of an existing warehouse and new construction of a four-story mixed-use building (measuring approximately 26,845 gross square feet); measuring 39’-8” tall (exclusive of elevator and stair penthouses), 19 dwelling units, 1 PDR unit, 15 off-street parking spaces, 20 Class 1 bicycle parking spaces, and 3 Class 2 bicycle parking spaces. The project includes private and common open space and associated landscaping. Under the Large Project Authorization, the project is seeking exceptions to certain Planning Code requirements including: 1) street frontage active use and ground floor ceiling height (Planning Code Section 145.1); and 2) rear yard (Planning Code 134); and 3) dwelling unit exposure (Planning Code 140). The subject property is located within the UMU (Urban Mixed Use) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 7, 2016)
SPEAKERS:= Esmeralda Jardines – Staff report
+ Steve Vettel – Design presentation
+ (M) Speaker – Design presentation
+ Phillip Lesser – Future
+ Eric Arguello – Small sites, Latino Cultural District
+ Cragi Webber – Support
+ (M) Speaker – Support
+ Peter Papadapoulous – Process
+ Marie Sorenson – Process
+ Rick Hall – Process
+ Sean Kiegran – Support
ACTION:Approved with Conditions, as amended by staff
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Wu
MOTION:19726
13.2014.1020CUA(D. VU: (415) 575-9120)
1515 SOUTH VAN NESSAVENUE(AKA 3251 26THSTREET)-southeast corner of South Van Ness Avenue and 26thStreet; Lots 001, 001A & 008 in Assessor’s Block 3251 (District 9) -Request forConditional Use Authorizationof aPlanned Unit Developmentpursuant to Planning Code Sections 121.1, 303 and 304 for demolition of an existing 31,680 square foot commercial/industrial building and construction of an approximately 180,277 square foot, five- to six-story, 65-foot tall building that includes up to 157 dwelling units, approximately 5,241 square feet of ground floor commercial space, 16,441 square feet of usable open space, and up to 81 basement level off-street parking spaces. The project is also requesting modifications from the rear yard, dwelling unit exposure, ground floor frontage and off-street loading requirements pursuant to Planning Code Sections 134, 140, 145.1 and 152, respectively. The subject property is located within the Mission Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) District and 55-X and 65-X Height and Bulk Districts. This notice also meets Section 312 requirements for public notification.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 4, 2016)
SPEAKERS:= Doug Vu – Staff report
+ Peter Skalanger – Project introduction
+ (M) Speaker – Design presentation
+ Alexis Pelosi – Latino Cultural District
-Eric Arguello – Organized opposition, continuance
-Peter Papadapoulous – Organized opposition
+ Phil Lesser – Support
+ Pat McMillan – Support
+ Michael Theriot – Trades support
-Fran Taylor – Working yourself out of a home
-Marie Eliza – Continuance
-Susan Marsh – Displacement
-Tom Ray – Affordability
-Scott Feeney –
+ Megan – Support
+ Lucy Junis – Support
+ (M) Speaker – Neighborhood group interaction
-Marie Sorenson – Affordable rents
-Lou Dematazin – Continuanced
+ Amie Fryman – Support
+ Anthony Urbina – Support
+ Joel Koppel – Support
-(F) Speaker – Speculative development
+ Tim Colen – Support, more housing
+ Tony Rodriguez – Changes, support
-Rich Hall – Continuance
-Raylene Vallederos – No longer a progressive city
+ Laura Clarke – Palo Alto Commissioner statement
-Magick – “We cannot afford the luxury”
-Maria – Affordable housing
-Christina Olague – Workforce housing
+ Adrian Simi – Carpenters support, no displacement
+ Rafael Solari – Housing crisis is urgent
ACTION:Approved with Conditions as amended to include: that the Sponsor continue working with the Department on design, PDR and uses consistent with the Latino Cultural District.
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Wu
MOTION:19727
14.2015-010069CUA(J. SPEIRS: (415) 575-9106)
2441 MISSION STREET-east side of Mission Street, between 20thand 21stStreets, Lot 026 in Assessor’s Block 3610 (District 9) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Section 186.1 and 303 to permit the expansion of an existing noncomplying use within a NCT Zoning District. The Project site is located within the NCT (Mission Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and 55-X Height and Bulk District. The project proposes an internal expansion of an existing Medical Cannabis Dispensary (dba Shambala) within the 1-story building. The project would expand into the adjacent retail space at 2445 Mission Street. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to November 10, 2016
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
15.2014-002834CUA(N. FOSTER: (415) 575-9167)
1452-1458 BROADWAY-north side of Broadway, between Larkin and Polk Streets, Lot 013 in Assessor’s Block 0572 (District 3) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Section 253 and 303 to permit a building exceeding 50 feet within a RM-2 Zoning District. The Project site is located within a RM-2 (Residential-Mixed, Moderate Density) Zoning District and 65-A Height and Bulk District. The project proposes to convert an existing 2-story building with ground-floor parking and second-floor limited commercial uses into a 6-story building with 7 dwelling units. The project would retain 7 ground-floor parking spaces, add 7 Class I bicycle parking spaces, and provide private open space for each dwelling unit. The resulting height of the building would be approximately 62’ tall (excluding rooftop features). This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Nick Foster – Staff report
+ (M) Speaker – Project presentation
= Moe Jameel – Suggested changes
+ Sean Kiegran – Support
= Greg Wilson – Sun and light
ACTION:Approved with Conditions as amended to include:
1. Roof hatches for private roof access;
2. Provide an additional unit;
3. Notch the third level;
4. Reduce the first floor 15 feet from the rear; and
5. Reduce the roof terrace five feet.
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Richards
NAYES:Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
MOTION:19728
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
16.2015-015721DRM(N. FOSTER: (415) 575-9167)
1276 MARKET STREET-north side of Market Street between Larkin/9th and Hyde/8th Streets; Lot 009 in Assessor’s Block 0355 (District 3) -Mandatory Discretionary Reviewpursuant to Planning Code Section 202 for the application to allow for a Medical Cannabis Dispensary (MCD) to operate at the subject property within the C-3-G (Downtown General Commercial) Zoning District and 80-X Height and Bulk District. The MCD would allow for on-site medication of medical cannabis (e.g. smoking, vaporizing, and consumption of medical cannabis edibles would be permitted at the subject property). In addition, both on-site sales of medical cannabis and/or medical cannabis edibles, and on-site cannabis cultivation (e.g. live marijuana plants would be kept on the premises for purposes of harvesting medical product) would be permitted at the subject property. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h).
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Nick Foster – Staff report
+ Brendan Hallinan – Project presentation
+ Nate Haas – Dispensary characteristics
+ Jessie Henry – Project presentation
+ Chris Schulman – On-site consumption
+ Susan Tiben – Support
+ Mickey Martin – On-site consumption
ACTION:Took DR and Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Moore, Richards
NAYES:Antonini
ABSENT:Johnson, Wu
DRA No:0479
17.2015-013000DRP(W. FARRENS: (415) 575-9172)
630 9THAVENUE-east side between Balboa and Cabrillo Streets; Lot 025 in Assessor’s Block 1636 (District 1) - Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2015.08.28.5544, proposing a full seismic upgrade at the basement floor and interior renovations.Proposed exterior changes are limited to a small expansion of the basement floor into the existing lightwell. The property is located within a RH-2 (Residential House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis:Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:Do not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
WITHDRAWN
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
Adjournment – 8:49 p.m.
adopted:September 8, 2016
You have reached the archived site of the San Francisco Planning DepartmentThis site is no longer active as of Feb 18, 2019For the most up-to-date news and informationVisit our current site
City and County of San Francisco