This website offers functionality that requires JavaScript. To easily turn ON JavaScript you can follow the instructions provided on the following websites:Enable JavaScriptandWikiHow
SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, September 15, 2016
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Moore
COMMISSIONER ABSENT:Richards
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 12:09 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim- Planning Director, Jonathan Disalvo, Andrew Perry, Kate Cheng, Menaka Mohan, Diego Sanchez, Claudine Asbagh, Todd Kenney, Veronica Flores, and Jonas P. Ionin - Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1.2015-003768DRP-02(B. BENDIX: (415) 575-9114)
2462 FILBERT STREET– north side between Scott and Pierce Streets; Lot 009B in Assessor’s Block 0513 (District 2) - Requests forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2015.03.25.1848, proposing construction of a three-story rear addition, interior alterations, the addition of a rooftop elevator penthouse, and legalization of a roof deck above a three-story single-family house within a RH-1 (Residential, House, Single-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h).
Staff Analysis: Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued indefinitely from Regular Meeting of January 21, 2016)
(Proposed for Continuance to September 29, 2016)
SPEAKERS:Dick Oppenheimer – 2462 Filbert Street -Continuance
Tom Tunny – 2462 Filbert Street – Continuance
ACTION:Continued to October 6, 2016
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
2.2015-012722PCA(D. SANCHEZ: (415) 575-9082)
INCLUSIONARY AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM {BOARD FILE NO. 150911}–Planning Code Amendment, introduced by Mayor Lee and Supervisors Farrell and Tangto provide revised geographic, timing, pricing and other requirements for the off-site alternative to the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Fee; create a new option for off-site projects that qualify as Nonprofit Provider Partner Projects; create a new alternative for project sponsors of smaller market-rate projects to direct the Affordable Housing fee to small sites projects; create an option for project sponsors of on- and off-site housing to provide higher amounts of affordable housing at higher levels of affordability termed “dialing up”; revise certain definitions and operating procedures related to the Inclusionary Housing Program and make conforming changes; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan , Planning Code Section 302 and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Pending
(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 14, 2016)
(Proposed Continuance to December 15, 2016)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to December 15, 2016
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
3.2015-006857CUA(E. JACKSON: (415) 575-6383)
4529 18THSTREET– south side of 18thStreet, between Douglass and Clover Streets, Lot 40 in Assessor’s  Block 2691 (District 8) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationto reactivate a discontinued limited commercial use per Planning Code Sections 186(g) and 303 within a RH-2 (Residential House, Two Units) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  The limited commercial use was terminated in 1965.  The Proposed Project also includes a three-story vertical addition on top of the existing single-story structure containing a single-family unit and the proposed commercial space, which is currently occupied by an interior designer showroom/office. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of June 16, 2016)
(Proposed for Continuance to December 15, 2016)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to December 15, 2016
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
4.2016-005143CUA(N. FOSTER: (415) 575-9167)
1331-1335 POLK STREET–west side of Polk, between Pine Street and Austin Street, Lot 002 in Assessor’s Block 0667 (District 3) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Section 723.44 and 303 to legalize the expansion of an existing Restaurant Use (d.b.a. Ben Thai Café) at 1331 Polk Street into the adjacent tenant space at 1335 Polk Street.While the existing Restaurant Use occupies both storefronts, the establishment of the Restaurant Use at the 1335 Polk Street constitutes a change of use from Limited Restaurant to Restaurant.Minor interior tenant improvements are proposed as part of the change of use, with no expansion of the existing building.The subject property is located within the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District an 65-A Height and Bulk District. A Planning Commission approval at the public hearing would constitute the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
MOTION:19733
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
5.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
If I may jump ahead of the President, I would like to welcome our new Commissioner Koppel, nobody has acknowledged that he sits here,welcome to the game.
Commissioner Fong:
I'll extend that welcome and these procedures as well as us, you’ve been here so many times on that side, so, happy to have your expertise, your different opinions and thoughts, as you know very – interesting and mixed eclectic Commission, I think you'll do a great job adding another perspective to that.So, welcome.
Commissioner Koppel:
Thank you all for the the good welcome.I'd like to first start off by giving some respect to former Commissioners Wu and Commissioner Antonini, for their years of service. I’d also like to start off by thanking Mayor Ed Lee for the nomination, the Board of Supervisors for their support and President London Breed for the direction also.I am really honored and privileged to be up here, and I am not taking this seat lightly, and I am just thrilled to be part of conversation thanks.
Commissioner Fong:
Fantastic, welcome again.
Commissioner Fong:
Commissioners one more item, I wanted to bring up, and really should have been under Commissioners comments.I wanted to share a conversation, that has been taking place over a number of weeks, months, and Commissioner Moore brought up several times, and that is the occasion when we have thesemeetings, super meetings, that go to midnight. Commissioner Koppel we’re getting off very easy today, with a light load, so, part of you're welcome, but to try to level those out and not have those mega meetings and then short ones like this.Inpart of that attempt, and as yousee, even try,when we look at the forward calendar, finding an open spot, or an open date it is difficult.I wanted to share with youa couple of ideas and thoughts, that Commissioner Johnson and CommissionerRichards, as well as, Commissioner Moore have shared with me individually, that we may or may not want to try out, and do a lit bit of apilot.One of them maybe actually starting the meetings earlier,starting at 10:00 A.M., that may be a professional conflict for some, but it would in those super days,get us out earlier when we predict there is going to be a super day, that we can start earlier.The other thought is,to actually compile the DRs to one day a month or two days a month,however it works out,so we can really focus on that fine grain detail, maybe bringing others experts for their opinion related to just DRs and residential buildings. The third one was potentially, especially when there are high impact calendars, actually to reduce the minutes on the public comments, that is not generally a well receive thought, but the DRs comments can be reduced to one minute and the CU comments to two minutes, so, essentially dropping a minute each, will actually save quite a bit.And again, all of these could only be imparted on special heavy calendars day. So, Jonas and staff did a little bit of research on other commissions, it is typical that two or three minutes is used in some occasions, one minute is used, so we would not be out of the norm by changing that or adopting that, and again, that is at the discretion of whoever is sitting in the seat as the President, again, could be the standard rule the default or in special circumstances applied.I just want to put that out there and obviously down a few commissioners today, I want to let them hear this, but wanted to share that conversation with you.
6.Director’s Announcements
Jeff Joslin, Acting Planning Director:
Other than to also gratefully welcome CommissionerKoppel to the Commission I have no Director's announcements.
7.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
Land Use Committee:
·160788 Zoning - Extension of Interim Prohibition on Commercial Mergers in the Proposed Calle 24 Special Use District. Sponsor: Mayor, Campos. Staff: D. Sanchez.
At Monday’s Land Use hearing, the Committee heard a proposed extension of Interim Prohibition on Commercial Mergers in the Proposed Calle 24 Special Use District.  This Urgency Ordinance proposes extending the existing interim prohibition on commercial storefront mergers of greater than 799 gross square feet in the proposed SUD for an additional 12 months.  The proposed Calle 24 SUD generally includes properties bounded by 22nd Street to the north, Potrero Avenue to the east, Cesar Chavez to the south and Capp Street to the west.
At the Land Use Committee hearing, there was no public testimony.  With no substantive discussion, the Committee then voted unanimously to recommend the item to the Full BOS.
·160808 Hearing - Preservation of LGBT Nightlife Spaces and Status of LGBT Cultural District. Sponsor: Wiener. Staff: Frye. Item 2
Also at Monday’s Land Use Committee, the Department’s preservation staff took part in a hearing on the status of the LGBTQ Cultural Heritage District, first proposed in 2011 as part of the Western SoMa Community Planning effort.
Department staff conveyed the importance of creating a city-wide strategy rather than one tied to a specific geography, like the Castro, SoMa, or the Tenderloin.  Staff discussed the need to identify members of the public as stakeholders to participate in community-led effort and also said that some progress had been made on that front. Staff also testified that the project will require additional Department staff to be sought in the FY2016/17 budget.
Members of the public largely represented the LGBTQ nightlife community urged the committee to accelerate the process of creating a working group to lead the development of the Cultural Heritage District.
On Tuesday Supervisor Wiener introduced a resolution urging the establishment of the LGBTQ Nightlife Working Group and also urging the Office of Economic and Workforce Development and the Entertainment Commission to convene the working group with a goal of protecting, preserving, and expanding LGBTQ nightlife, including drafting and enact a plan to create the Citywide Cultural Heritage Strategy.
Full Board:
·160773 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental Review - Proposed Project at 2000-2070 Bryant Street. Staff: Rodgers.
·160777 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization - 2000-2070 Bryant Street Projects. Staff: Rodgers.
At the Full Board hearing this Tuesday, the Board heard the appeal of the Conditional Use authorization and the environmental determination for 2000 Bryant Street.
On June 2 of this year, the Planning Commission approved the project that consists of the demolition of six buildings , including three dwelling units, and the construction of a six-story mixed-use building with 196 market-rate dwelling units, 3 on-site below-market rate units, approximately 12,000 square feet of PDR space, and 84 parking spaces. The project provides open space through a roof deck, two inner courtyards, and a mid-block alley.
The Project meets its inclusionary affordable housing requirement by dedicating land to the City, which is capable of containing up to 98 dwelling units.
Since the Commission’s approval, the project has been modified by reducing the number of market-rate dwelling units from 196 to 191; increasing the number of car-share parking spaces from two to five; subsidized rent for 4,000 square feet of the PDR; and, agreement to pay for the tenant improvements related to the 12,000 gsf of PDR use.
The Board hearing lasted approximately 5 hours.  Appellants claimed that the CEQA review was faulty because the community plan exemption relied upon the Eastern Neighborhoods EIR and that EIR is “out-of-date”.  Planning staff explained that program EIRs do not establish caps or limits on development, but rather report the growth projections used to inform the impact analysis. Differences between projections and actual growth don’t render the EIR inadequate.
Staff also explained that CEQA mandates streamlined review through the use of CPEs to avoid unnecessary paperwork for projects consistent with the development density assumed in adopted community plans.
The Appellants also argued that the CPE was inadequate because it did not identify significant impacts from gentrification. As the City Attorney and staff explained, economic or social impacts are not significant effects on the environment.
Regarding the CU authorization, the Appellants claimed that the Commission did not make the appropriate findings for the CU, that open space was not sufficient, and that the land dedication did not meet code requirements.  Planning Staff reminded the Board that the CU concerned only the loss of three dwelling units.  The remainder of the project’s attributes were part of the “Large Project Authorization”, which is subject to an appeal that was considered on Wednesday night by the Board of Appeals.
Further, the Planning Commission found that the project was consistent with the Urban Mixed-Use Zoning District, meeting open space requirements through a roof terrace and the inclusionary requirement though adequate land dedication. MOHCD has certified that the land dedication would not only meet but also exceed the Code requirements for affordable housing.
District Supervisor Campos said that the project had been greatly improved due to community organizing.  For him, the question at the heart of the appeal was does this project do enough for the community?  He felt that on balance the community would be better off if this project was approved rather than being denied.  After discussion, the BOS unanimously upheld the Community Plan Exemption and the Commission’s CU authorization.
·160788 Zoning - Extension of Interim Prohibition on Commercial Mergers in the Proposed Calle 24 Special Use District. Sponsor: Mayor, Campos. Staff: D. Sanchez. Approved
·160952 Confirming Appointment, Planning Commission - Myrna Melgar.Confirmed
·160953 Confirming Appointment, Planning Commission - Joel Koppel.Confirmed
Introductions:
·New introductions have not been posted online yet, but we do know that Supervisor Wiener introduced a resolution urging the establishment of the LGBTQ Nightlife Working Group.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
Okay coming back to item 7 the Zoning Administrator requested that I report to you regarding the Board of Appeals action yesterday as alluded to by Mr. Starr, there was one item on appeal that you had heard previously at2000 Bryant Street a the large project authorization,the Board unanimouslydenied the appeal and upheld the Commission’sdecision.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No report
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:Georgia Schuttish – Photos of demo work, Section 317
1.Need more ability to monitor alterations by requiring project sponsors to send photos of demo work as project proceeds to make sure it is not a demo or tantamount to a demo.
This is something to consider with Section 317 revision informational – next week.
2.Enforcement after the fact is hard much easier to do before issues arise whether.
a. Determining current/existing number of units.
b. Closing loopholes such as Section 317(b) (7).
3.The ultimate goal is to preserve as muchexistinghousing as possible.
4.And in the same vein, we, you and staff need to proceed with residential design guidelines.
They are critical and necessary for our R-zone districts – our neighborhoods – that are most of our City.
They need to be upgraded and modernized and publicly aired per my general public comments which are in the minutes for June 23, 2016.
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
8.2016-010605PCA(A. BRASK: (415) 575-9078)
BETTER ROOFS ORDINANCE–Planning Code Amendment- Ordinance amending the Green Building Code, Planning Code and the Environment Code to establish requirements for certain new building construction facilitating development of renewable energy facilities and living roofs; setting an operative date of January 1, 2017; providing findings as to local conditions pursuant to the California Health and Safety Code; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
SPEAKERS:= Ann Brask – Staff Report
+ Andres Power, Aide to Supervisor Wiener – Better Roofs
+ Georgia Schuttish – Rear yard open space
= Barry Dilfer – Response to questions
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Johnson Moore
ABSENT:Richards
RESOLUTION:19734
9.2016-006227PCA(D. SANCHEZ: (415) 575-9082)
SIGN REGULATIONS[BOARD FILE NO. 160424]–Planning Code and Zoning Map Amendmentintroduced by Supervisor Peskin amending the Planning Code to correct and update provisions, delete obsolete or redundant sections, and reinstate the distinction between Historic and Vintage Signs; amending the Zoning Map to delete the Showplace Square Special Sign District, the South of Market General Advertising Special Sign District, and the Hamm’s Building Historic Special Sign District; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1, and findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code Section 302.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
SPEAKERS:= Diego Sanchez – Staff Report
+ Lee Hepner, Aide to Supervisor Peskin – Proposed ordinances
+ Tom Radoulovich – Sign controls
+ Ronald Lee – Night club posters
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
AYES:Fong,Hillis, Johnson, Moore
ABSENT:Richards
RESOLUTION:19735
10.2016-008022PCA(D. SANCHEZ: (415) 575-9082)
SIGNS - EXEMPTIONS AND GENERAL ADVERTISING SIGN PENALTIES [BOARD FILE NO. 160553]–Planning Code Amendmentintroduced by Supervisor Peskin amending the Planning Code to clarify that all noncommercial Signs are exempt from regulation pursuant to Planning Code, Article 6; increase penalties for repeat violations for the display of illegal General Advertising Signs; shorten the time before penalties for General Advertising Sign violations begin to accrue; allow property liens for such penalties that go unpaid; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1, and findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code Section 302.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
SPEAKERS:Same as Item 9.
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Moore
ABSENT:Richards
RESOLUTION:19736
11.2010.0305GPA(M. SNYDER: (415) 575-6891)
SUNNYDALE HOPE SF MASTER PLAN PROJECT–Initiation of General Plan Amendments– The 50-acre site is located in the Visitacion Valley neighborhood and is generally bounded by McLaren Park to the north, Crocker Amazon Park to the west, Hahn Street to the east and Velasco to the south.Request to Initiate Amendments to Map 4 of the Urban Design Element, “Urban Design Guidelines for the Heights of Buildings”, and Map 03 of the Recreation and Open Space Element, “Existing and Proposed Open Space”.Recreation and Open Space Element Map 03 would be amended so that new proposed open space within the Sunnydale site would be reflected in the map; Urban Design Element Map 4 would be amended so that the site is shaded with the height designation of 41 – 88 feet.The amendments, along with proposed Planning Code Text Amendments, Map Amendments, new Design Guidelines, and a Development Agreement would enable the Sunnydale Hope SF Master Plan Project, which would completely reconstruct the existing Housing Authority site. The resultant project would consists of a maximum of 1,775 residential units, (775 replacement affordable units, approximately 196 additional affordable housing units, and up to 731 market rate units).  The master plan would also include all new streets, utilities and infrastructure as well as 6.5 acres of new open spaces, and approximately 60,000 square feet of new neighborhood serving retail and community spaces.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Initiate
SPEAKERS:= Matt Snyder – Staff Report
+ Corey Smith – Support
ACTION:Initiated and scheduled a hearing on November 17, 2016
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Moore
ABSENT:Richards
RESOLUTION:19737
12.2010.0515GPA(M. SNYDER: (415) 575-6891)
POTRERO HOPE SF MASTER PLAN PROJECT–Initiation of General Plan Amendments– The 38-acre site is located on the south and east slopes of Potrero Hill and is generally bounded by 22ndStreet and the Potrero Recreation Center to the north, Wisconsin Street to the west, 25thand 26thStreets to the south, and Missouri Street and Texas Street to the east.Request to Initiate Amendments to Map 4 of the Urban Design Element, “Urban Design Guidelines for the Heights of Buildings”, and Map 03 of the Recreation and Open Space Element, “Existing and Proposed Open Space”.Recreation and Open Space Element Map 03 would be amended so that new proposed open space within the Potrero site would be reflected in the map; Urban Design Element Map 4 would be amended so that the site is shaded with the height designation of 41 – 88 feet.The amendments, along with proposed Planning Code Text Amendments, Map Amendments, new Design Guidelines, and a Development Agreement would enable the Potrero Hope SF Master Plan Project, which would completely reconstruct the existing Housing Authority site.   The resultant project would consists of a maximum of 1,700 residential units, (606 replacement affordable units, approximately 152 additional affordable housing units, and up to 943 market rate units).  The master plan would also include all new streets, utilities and infrastructure as well as 3.5 acres of new open spaces, and approximately 45,000 square feet of new neighborhood serving retail and community spaces.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Initiate
SPEAKERS:Same as Item 11.
ACTION:Initiated and scheduled a hearing on November 17, 2016
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Moore
ABSENT:Richards
RESOLUTION:19738
13.2014.1279ENX(C. TOWNES: (415) 575-9195)
249 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE– located on the east side of Pennsylvania Avenue between 18thand Mariposa Streets; Lots 010, 013, and 014 in Assessor’s Block 3990 (District 10) - Request for aLarge Project Authorization (LPA), pursuant to Planning Code Section 329, to demolish two existing one-story warehouses (collectively measuring 19,125 square feet) andconstruct a new four-story, 40-foot tall, mixed-use building (measuring 76,070 gross square feet) with 59 dwelling units and 3,426 square feet of ground floor Production, Distribution and Repair (PDR) space. The projectincludes44 below-grade off-street parking spaces, 2 car share parking spaces, and 80 bicycle parking spaces.Under the LPA, the project is seeking exceptions to certain Planning Code requirements, including: 1) rear yard (Planning Code Section 134); 2) dwelling unit exposure (Planning Code Section 140); and 3) horizontal mass reduction (Planning Code Section 270.1). The subject property is located within the UMU (Urban Mixed Use) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 4, 2016)
SPEAKERS:= Chris Townes – Staff Report
+ Steve Vettel – Project presentation
+ Speaker – Design presentation
= Jorge Miroz – Parking, affordable housing
Mae Jamil -
ACTION:Adopted a Motion of Intent to Approve with Conditions as amended to allow for a Costa Hawkins agreement to be completed; Continued to November 3, 2016
AYES:Fong,Hillis, Johnson, Moore
ABSENT:Richards
14.2015-002135CUA(C. TOWNES: (415) 575-9195)
654 CAPP STREET– West side of Capp Street between 23rdand 24thStreets; Lot 041 in Assessor’s Block 3642 (District 9)  – Request for aConditional Use Authorization (CUA), pursuant to Planning Code Section 303 and 317, to demolish the existing 2,020 square foot, one-story-over-basement, single family residence (with detached rear accessory building) on a 3,062 sf (25’x122.5’) lot, and construct a new 40-foot tall, four-story, 7,815 square foot, residential building with four dwelling units.  Pursuant to Planning Code Section 317(c), an application for a permit that would result in the loss of one or more Residential Units is required to obtain Conditional Use Authorization and the application for a replacement building shall be subject to Conditional Use requirements. The subject property is located within the RTO-M (Residential Transit Oriented- Mission) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to September 29, 2016
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
15.2016-005514CUA(N. TRAN: (415) 575-9174)
4489 MISSION STREET–south side of Mission Street between Avalon and ExcelsiorAvenues, Lot 016 in Assessor’s Block 6013 (District 11) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections303and303.1,703.4and745.40to establish an approximately 1,270 square foot Formula Retail use (a wireless store d.b.a. Cricket Wireless Authorized Retailer) in an existing two-story commercial/residential building within the Excelsior Outer Mission Street NCD (Neighborhood Commercial District) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The project includes minor tenant improvements and new signage. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Nancy Tran – Staff report
+ Phillip Lesser – Project presentation
+ Speaker – Cricket wireless advantages
+ Speaker – Fit for the neighborhood
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Moore
ABSENT:Richards
RESOLUTION:19739
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
16.2014-002562DRP(T. KENNEDY: (415) 575-9125)
1883 CHURCH STREET–east side between Randall Street and 30thStreet; Lot 027 in Assessor’s Block 6656 -Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2014.11.26.2579, proposing a horizontal addition in the rear of an existing one unit residential building within a RH-2 (Residential House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis: Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:= Delvin Washington – Staff Report
-Albert Camarena – DR presenation
+ Speaker – Support
ACTION:Did not Take DR, approved as proposed
AYES:Fong, Hillis, Johnson
NAYES:Moore
ABSENT:Richards
DRA No:0481
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
Adjournment – 3:08 p.m.
adopted:September 29, 2016
You have reached the archived site of the San Francisco Planning DepartmentThis site is no longer active as of Feb 18, 2019For the most up-to-date news and informationVisit our current site
City and County of San Francisco