7. 
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just a note on the hearing schedule for the rezoning proposals, we anticipated being with you next week to 
talk about the proposed map, we would like another week so we are going to continue it one week beyond 
that wall so combine it with the hearing we plan to have on Small Business Protection. So, just a one-week 
delay on that but I wanted to let you know and members of the public know that as well.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 27, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 7 
 
8. 
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Afaris. 
 
Land Use 
241196 Building, Planning Codes - Code Corrections and Updates. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Starr 
This week, the land use committee considered a duplicated version on the 2024 Code Corrections 
Ordinance, that was sponsored by this commission. The Code corrections ordinance was duplicated by 
Supervisor Peskin in December of last year with the intention of amending the PDR-2 controls.  
The amendment applies to only one site. When the City was considering stricter controls on self-storage 
facilities, this site had a pending application. A carve-out allowed the self-storage facility to proceed, 
provided that 50% of the site was used for specific purposes like Industrial, Agricultural, Automotive Repair, 
Catering, Trade Shop, Institutional Community use, or Arts Activities. The proposed amendment expands 
the allowable uses for that 50% portion to include any use permitted in the PDR-2 zoning district—except 
Parcel Delivery Service and Fleet Charging 
Commissioners, you heard the 2024 Code Corrections ordinance on September 19 of last year and voted to 
recommend approval with some additional code correction modifications. In addition, you also endorsed 
the Land Use Committee adding this provision to the code if they saw fit. You did not actively add it to the 
ordinances, as it was a last-minute request from the interested parties.  
The duplicated file has since been sponsored by Supervisor Walton. At Monday’s hearing, Supervisor Walton 
was not present, but planning staff read the amendments into the record, and committee member 
Supervisor Chen made a motion to adopt the amendments. The vote to adopt the amendments and to 
continue the item for one week both passed unanimously.   
Full Board 
250069 Planning Code - Conversion of Residential Hotel Rooms to Tourist Hotel Rooms at 447 Bush Street. 
Sponsor: City Attorney. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read 
250003 General Plan - Central SoMa and Transit Center District Commercial Development Requirements. 
Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey. PASSED Second Read 
240787 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Central SoMa and Transit Center District Commercial Development 
Requirements. Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey. PASSED Second Read 
241021 Planning Code - Window Replacement Standards. Sponsors: Melgar. Staff: Taylor. PASSED Second 
Read 
241067 Planning, Building Codes - Interim Housing in Hotels and Motels. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. 
PASSED Second First Read 
241173 Planning Code - Continuation of Nonconforming Public Parking Lots in CMUO and MUR. Sponsor: 
Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
250174 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 4100-3rd Street. Staff: Starr. Continued 
to April 8, 2025