SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, September 19, 2013
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 12: 14 PM.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Steve Wertheim, Sophie Hayward, Sara Vellve, Sharon Young, Glenn Cabreros, Mary Woods, Omar Masry, Doug Vu, and Jonas P. Ionin - Acting Commission Secretary.
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1a.2012.0799BX(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
270 BRANNAN STREET-, located between 2ndand Delancey Streets, Lot 026 in Assessor’s Block 3774 –Request for a Large Project Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 329, for the new construction of a seven-story, office building (approximately 189,000 gsf) with an internal atrium (approximately 5,000 sq ft), twelve (12) off-street parking spaces and thirty-six (36) bicycle parking spaces. Under the Large Project Authorization, the project is seeking modifications from the Planning Code requirements for the measurement of height (Planning Code Section 102.12(c) and 260) and ground floor ceiling height (Planning Code Section 145.1(c)(4)). The subject property is located within the South End Landmark District, MUO (Mixed-Use Office) Zoning District, and 65-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Proposed for Continuance to October 3, 2013)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to October 3, 2013
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Sugaya
1b.2012.0799ABX(R. SUCRE: 415/575-9108)
270 BRANNAN STREET- located between 2ndand Delancey Streets, Lot 026 in Assessor’s Block 3788 –Request for an Office Development Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 321 and 842.66 to construct approximately 189,000 gsf of office space within the South End Landmark District, MUO (Mixed-Use Office) Zoning District, and 65-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Proposed for Continuance to October 3, 2013)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to October 3, 2013
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Sugaya
2.2010.0222E(K. ZUSHI: (415) 575-9036)
248-252 9TH STREET- west side between Howard and Folsom Streets; Lots 006 and 007 of Assessor’s Block 3518- Appeal of Preliminary Mitigated Negative Declarationfor the merger of the two lots, totaling 5,000 square feet, on the project site, demolition of the existing buildings currently used as storage, and construction of a five-story, 50-foot-tall, 18,697-sf mixed-use building including 15 dwelling units and 3,126 square feet of ground floor commercial/restaurant space. The proposed project would include no parking spaces. The project site is located in a RCD (Regional Commercial District).
Preliminary Recommendation: Uphold Preliminary Mitigated Negative Declaration
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 1, 2013)
(Proposed for Continuance to October 24, 2013)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to October 24, 2013
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Sugaya
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2012.0564C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
1 RICHARDSON AVENUE–along the west side of Richardson Avenue between Lombard and Chestnut streets, Lot 007 in Assessor’s Block 0934 –Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 712.83 and 303 for a wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The proposed macro WTS facility would consist of eight panel antennas and related electronic equipment mounted on the roof of the existing hotel. Antennas would be placed at two locations, with six antennas screened from view by a faux enclosure designed to mimic a part of the hotel, and two antennas located in faux roof vents. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 3 Site (Industrial or Commercial Structures) within an NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate Scale) Zoning, and 40-X Height and Bulk Districts.Preliminary Recommendation:Approvewith Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 8, 2013)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to September 26, 2013
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Sugaya
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
4.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I'd like to take a moment of personal privilege and ask the Commission to adjourn in the memory of our deceased son Peter Antonini, who died 11 years ago today, while he was running at the Great Highway.He had been accepted into the Fire Academy and he was very thrilled about that, but he had an undiagnosed hereditary heart condition and we have formed a foundation that we have a memorial tournament every year and the benefits go to three different charities in his memory, but since it was the anniversary of his death I would ask that we adjourn in his memory. My second item is just to talk a little bit about the Secretary search,I mentioned the Subcommittee had reached a recommendation and more about that in the future as that particular item is calendared, but I wanted to mention that it was a very long and extensive process verythorough with outreach in many areas and various parts of the media and we had many applicants over a hundred applicants, I think, and it was narrowed down gradually to thirty and then 10 and eventually we started the interview process and we came up with a recommendation. I just wanted to mention to the public how extensive this process was and how often the Subcommittee met, we felt we did a good job and we were very happy and particularly want to thank Commissioners Moore and Borden from this Commission who served and occasionally Commissioner Sugaya filled in on a few occasions.
Commissioner Moore:
I'd like to ask the Commission to consider the following. On September 17th the AIA held a major meeting with design presentations for the Presidio’s Newest Cultural Institution.This consisted of three design proposals being presented, and while this Commission does not have any jurisdiction over the matter of the Presidio, I think it is in the public interest, including how we look at the larger issue surrounding the planning of the re-use of the Exploratorium etc., to have a bigger understanding of what some of the considerations of the design proposals are. As we did with the Fisher Museum a number of years ago, we all sat, and without saying that we have jurisdiction, we have the right for comment and review and any combination thereof. So I ask the Commission, to ask, that we please have a presentation and allow also members of the public, who are not really invited by the AIA to hear this in a broader forum if the Director considers this to be appropriate.
Director Rahaim:
If the Commission so desires we can certainly request that they come forward for a public hearing. I do not know the exact timing when they are doing the selection, but we can certainly find that out.
Commissioner Fong:
If you can send me more information, that would be great.
Commissioner Moore:
I can only send you, what has occurred, and will be happy to forward the e-mail to you that occurred on September 17th, two days ago, and the I think it was briefly discussed in the paper.The paper raised a number of questions and I do believe that it would be interesting for us to, perhaps, create our own questions, if we do.
Commissioner Antonini:
I agree with that, in fact, I wanted to go to that, but wasn't able to make the AIA presentation the other night, but I think I would be of service to public to have a hearing where it could be presented and everyone can get a little better idea.
Commissioner Hillis:
Just quickly to concur with that, and just with all the focus on the waterfront I think it would be good to hear. I think people get confused as to whose jurisdiction is where, so I second that.
5.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Commissioners, I just want to reiterate something that was in your Director's packet, your Director’s Report today about a couple of forums on the Eastern Neighborhood Plan, that Supervisor Cowen is sponsoring, staff is attending one on Wednesday, October 2nd, at 6:00 pm, at the California College of the Arts and then the second one on Saturday, October 5th at 10:00 am, also at CCA, the purpose of these is to do a kind of refresher course, if you will, on Eastern Neighborhoods to remind the community what the purpose of the Plan was, and then to go over the development process and how the public can get involved in the development process.With the number of projects that have been coming on-line in that area, particularly in Potrero Hill, Dogpatch, and Showplace Square there is a lot of concern about the pace of development, so we wanted to, kind of go over the Plan, which by the way, is almost reaching its five year anniversary already, and to remind the public, and those neighborhoods in particular about the purpose of that plan and the zoning parameters that were set up in the Plan. So, again, that’s October 2nd and October 5th for those two hearings, public meetings, I should say.ill, H
6.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·The Board approved on first reading a Planning Commission-initiated ordinance for hotels in certain SoMa districts.This ordinance would amend Section 842 to allow a tourist hotel of any size, on parcels in the MUO zoning district with a height designation of 105’ or higher via CU.Under the existing controls for the MUO zoning district, only hotels with fewer than 75 rooms could be approved with Conditional Use authorization.The final read is expected next week.
·The CU appeal hearing for 3771/3781 Cesar Chavez was held this week.The Commission approved this CU on July 18.The CU before would authorize an existing pre-school operating at two existing properties to increase enrollment and to establish a religious facility.Supervisor Wiener conducted negotiations between the two parties of the appeal prior to the hearing.He negotiated the following additional conditions to be added to those already imposed by the PC:
1.Limit enrollement to 29 children for the first 9 months of its entitlement.After 9 months, the school shall be authorized to enroll up to 42 children unless the Zoning Administrator determines that a pattern of violations of the Conditional Use.
2.The project sponsor shall provide one curbside monitor at the drop off location and one additional monitor, assist children to the building.
3.The project sponsor shall require and communicate to all parents and guardians as well as to the curbside monitor that vehicles dropping off and picking up children must only pull forward into the loading zone, that pulling into the loading zone in reverse is prohibited, and that they shall pull forward along the curb as soon as the space ahead of them becomes available.
4.During morning drop off and afternoon pick up, driveways shall be temporarily blocked off with cones or other temporary means.
5.The project sponsor shall minimize unattended vehicles by communicating to all parents and guardians that they should avoid leaving vehiclesunattended when dropping off children.
6.If a white loading zone is permitted by MTA, the project sponsor shall operate the loading zone with the following conditions:The number of individual vehicles using the curbside white zone shall be limited during certain times.A maximum of 28 individual vehicles may use the curbside white zone between the hours of 7:30 and 9:00am and similarly, 28 individual vehicles may use the curbside white zone between the hours of 3:00 and 5:30pm.
7.The project sponsor shall produce and distribute a drop-off and pick-up plan to all families and shall document consent to this process.
At the hearing, Planning Staff expressed that the Department would work to ensure compliance of all conditions but that condition no. 6 would be difficult to enforce.Further, as communicated to us by Supervisor Wiener’s office, the appellant had agreed to provide evidence to the Department with any allegation of a violation of this condition.Without such evidence, enforcement would be difficult if not impossible.The Board then voted to overturn the CU and reissue it with the additional conditions.
INTRODUCTIONS:
·BF 130790Ordinance amending the Business and Tax Regulations, and Police Codes to change the limits of Parking Tax Occupancy Simplification for residential properties by increasing, from five to 10, the number of parking spaces residential buildings may rent to non-residents and increasing the gross revenue they may earn from rent from $4,000 to $12,000 per quarter and from $15,000 to $40,000 annually.Wiener.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals did meet last night, it was a brief hearing, there was one item that was going to be considered was an appeal of a building permit, or several building permits for demolition and constructionfor 1050 Valencia Street at Valencia and Hill.The Commission had heard this under DR, and took DR last year in September, the Commission also heard an appeal of the Neg. Dec. and again this was scheduled for an appeal last night, but late last week an appeal was filed on the environmental determination, so the item was continued to the call of the Chair, so there is no date scheduled now for the appeal of the building permits, it will be scheduled once the Board of Supervisors makes the determination on the environmental appeal.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Good afternoon Tim Frye, Department staff here to share with you the outcome of yesterdays Historic Preservation Commission hearing. It was the first scheduled meeting of the HPC since really August so they had quite full calendar and a number of important decisions to make.The first item on their calendar was a resolution honoring Alice Carey's contribution and work in historic preservation, that was unanimously passed and will be forward the to the State Office of Historic Preservation, as part of a package considering Ms. Careyfor a Governor's award this fall.The first item on their regular calendar; however, was the initiation of landmark designation for Marcus Books. Supervisor Breed came and presented in support of the designation after staff presented the findings of our report. There was a great deal of public comment and overwhelming support to forward the designation to the Board of Supervisors. The Commission also unanimously approved the initiation for that landmark designation, however, they asked us to augment portions of the designation report to reflect some of the stories that were heard during the public comment portion of the hearing, that really talked about the influence Marcus Bookstore has had on the Fillmore Community and San Francisco in general, so we'll be updating that report and bringing that back to them for final approval this fall.One other thing, to point out, is the representatives for the current property owners were on hand and asked for a continuance of the matter until February to sort out some outstanding legal issues. The Commission felt that because the process takes – there a number of hearings still in the pipeline before the landmark designation is finalized, that there would be plenty of opportunity to address those issues before the final approval or vote by Board of Supervisors. The Commission also approved a Certificate of Appropriateness for new construction at 270 Brannan Street, this is within the South End Landmark District the item also will before this Commission for an office allocation in the next couple weeks. The next two items on their agenda involved adoption of the Japantown Historic Context statement and the endorsement of the JCHESS. The Commission unanimously approved or adopted the Historic Context Statement. The Context Statement was drafted in 2009, amended in 2011, and there have been a lot of discussions about the importance of social and cultural heritage, especially in Japantown since 2011, so the Commission asked us to amend the context to reflect those conversations and it will be finalized in the upcoming months. The Commission also unanimously endorsed the JCHESS with a couple of amendments.In particular they wanted to add two additional buildings to their landmark designation work program, which is not an endorsement of landmark designation, but at least directs staff to engage the community and property owner to see if landmark designation is a viable option for those properties. Those properties include: The Pagoda, The Japantown YMCA and the Japanese Language School, and the YMCA and the Language School were the two additional properties that the Commission included. Ms. Caltagirone and Steve Wertheim are here and they will talk to you in more depth about the HPC’s comments, once that item is call this afternoon.There was to be a presentation on the SPUR San Francisco Heritage Task Force report on historic preservation in San Francisco and recommendations on our process revolving around entitlements and permitting, but due to time constraints that item was continued to the October 16th hearing.And then finally the Commission unanimously endorsed and adopted the Sunset District Historic Resource Survey.This is a survey of almost over 3000 buildings within the Sunset we identified several landmark, eligible landmark district, and a small collection of individually eligible landmark buildings. There was a large amount of community outreach during this process and overwhelming supportof the findings of the survey, they have one member of the community show up and in his area, which was a potential landmark district, he and his neighbors interesting in moving forward with local designation at a future time.
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.However, for items where public comment is closed this is your opportunity to address the Commission.With respect to all other agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:Patricia Vaughey - Bush Street, Design review, form committee members
Linda Chapman – Deals in the neighborhood
Paul Wermer – Planning vs. Reacting, walkable neighborhoods, and engaging store fronts
7.2013.0808U(S. WERTHEIM: (415) 558-6612)
JAPANTOWN CULTURAL HERITAGE AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY (JCHESS)- Resolution to endorse the Japantown Cultural Heritage and Economic Sustainability Strategy (JCHESS). The JCHESS includes a vision, goals, objectives, and recommendations intended to ensure that Japantown will thrive as a culturally rich, authentic, and economically vibrant neighborhood, which will serve as the cultural heart of the Japanese and Japanese American communities for generations to come. It is the first document in San Francisco to focus specifically on how to preserve and promote a neighborhood’s cultural heritage. The JCHESS is a collaborative effort between the Japantown Community, the Planning Department, and the Office of Economic and Workforce Development. Information on the JCHESS is available athttp://japantown.sfplanning.org.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution of Endorsement
SPEAKERS:+ Diana Ponce de Leon, OEWD – Implementation of JCHESS
+ Bob Hamaguchi – JCHESS process and endorsement
+ Ishiro Tasaka – Sense of community
+ Greg Lauria – JCHESS involvement,outreach meetings
+ Robert Sakai – Endorse resolutions
+ Marlene Morgan – Cathedral Hill Neighbors. Pedestrian crossings
+ Steve Nakajo – Japanese immigrants, internment lamps
+ Paul Wermer – Major property owner in Japantown declined to participate
+ Ben Kabachiawa – Affirmed the importance of JCESS
+ Conner Johnston, Aide to Sup. Breed – On behalf of Sup. Breed
+ Michi Komayada – Collaborative effort
+ Anonymous (F) Speaker – Traffic, density
+ Hiroshi Fukuda – JARF, Community process. Japantown for future generations
+ Karen Kai – Collaborative, open,arduous process
+ Ryan Kimura – Plan represents (1) Solution; (2) Power; (3) Beauty; (4) Awesome;
(5) Beginning
+ John Osaki – Frustrating process, time to adopt
+ Arnold Townsend – Outstanding proposal
ACTION:Adopted a Resolution of Endorsement as amended to include: “Be it further Resolved,
that the HPC review and implement those portions of JCHESS under their purview.”
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:18965
8.2013.0735TZ(S. WERTHEIM: (415) 558-6612)
INTENT TO INITIATE DEPARTMENT-SPONSORED AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING MAP AND PLANNING CODE TO ESTABLISH THE JAPANTOWN NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT-Pursuant to Planning Code Section 302, the Planning Commission will consider aResolution of Intentionto initiate amendments to the Planning Code and Zoning Map. The amendments are intended to 1) add Section 747.1 to establish the Japantown Neighborhood Commercial District along the south side of Post Street from Fillmore Street to Laguna Street, the north side of Post Street from Webster Street to Laguna Street, and Buchanan Street from Post Street to mid-way between Sutter Street and Bush Street; 2) amend Section 134(a), Table 135A, Section 145.4(b), a portion of Table 151.1, Section 155(r), Section 201, Section 263.20(b), Section 607.1(f), and Section 702.1 to make conforming and other technical changes; 3) amending Sheet ZN02 of the Zoning Map to rezone specified properties to the Japantown Neighborhood Commercial District; and 4) adopting environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the Priority Policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve a draft Resolution of Intention to initiate amendments to the Planning Code and schedule a public hearing to consider theamendments on or after October 17, 2013.
SPEAKERS:+ Diana Ponce de Leon, OEWD – Implementation of JCHESS
+ Bob Hamaguchi – JCHESS process and endorsement
+ Ishiro Tasaka – Sense of community
+ Greg Lauria – JCHESS involvement, outreach meetings
+ Robert Sakai – Endorse resolutions
+ Marlene Morgan – Cathedral Hill Neighbors. Pedestrian crossings
+ Steve Nakajo – Japanese inmigrants, internment lamps
+ Paul Wermer – Major property owner in Japantown declined to participate
+ Ben Kabachiawa – Affirmed the importance of JCESS
+ Conner Johnston, Aide to Sup. Breed – On behalf of Sup. Breed
+ Michi Komayada – Collaborative effort
+ Anonymous (F) Speaker – Traffic, density
+ Hiroshi Fukuda – JARF, Community process. Japantown for future generations
+ Karen Kai – Collaborative, open,arduous process
+ Ryan Kimura – Plan represents (1) Solution; (2) Power; (3) Beauty; (4) Awesome;
(5) Beginning
+ John Osaki – Frustrating process, time to adopt
+ Arnold Townsend – Outstanding proposal
ACTION:Adopted a Resolution of Intent to Initiate and scheduled a hearing on or after
October 17, 2013.
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:18966
9.2013.0134T2013.1164T(S. HAYWARD: (415) 558-6372)
AMENDMENTS TO THE PLANNING CODE INCLUDING REVISING THE REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS ON ALTERATIONS TO NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES [BOARD FILE 130783]- Ordinance introduced by Supervisor Avalos that would amend the Planning Code to permit alterations to non-conforming dwellings that exceed the permitted density of a zoning district in certain circumstances; and adopting findings, including environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 18, 2013)
NOTE: On July 18, 2013, following public testimony on Case No. 2013.0134T, Board File No. 130041, the Commission  adopted a recommendation to continue those portions of the legislation associated with Section 181 to September 19, 2013, by a vote (+5 -1). Commissioner Antonini voted against.  Commissioner Hillis was absent.  On July 30, 2013, Supervisor Avalos introduced substitute legislation that included a number of modifications, including separating those portions associated with Section 181 into a stand-alone file, which is the draft Ordinance associated with Case No. 2013.1164T (BF 130783)
SPEAKERS:Jeremy Pollack, Aide to Sup. Avalos – Ordinance description and amendments
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:Fong, Wu, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
NAYES:Antonini
RESOLUTION:18967
10.2011.0924EC(S. VELLVE: (415) 558-6263)
2419, 2421, 2435 LOMBARD STREET- south side between Divisadero and Scott Streets; Lots 028, 029, 030 in Assessor’s Block 0937 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 712.39, 303 and 317 to allow the demolition of three connected one and two-story mixed-use buildings containing two dwelling units on the second floor and their replacement with a four-story mixed use building containing 11 dwelling units, approximately 900 square feet of retail space and 9 parking spaces within a NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate-Scale) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 1, 2013)
NOTE: On August 1, 2013, following public testimony, the Commission indicated their concern regarding the proposed design and continued the matter to September 19, 2013, by a vote (+7 -0).
SPEAKERS:+ John Hood, Project Sponsor – Project description
+ Del Adello – Would like to see more projects like it
+ Tory Patton – Lombard Street vacancies, parking is not an issue
+ Patricia Vaughey – Great improvement
= (F) Speaker – City garage spaces, parking impacts
= Alfred Minnini – Mechanics noise levels – relocated, parking
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18968
11.2013.0914C(S. YOUNG: (415) 558-6346)
4850 GEARY BOULEVARD- northeast corner of Geary Boulevard and Funston Avenue,Lot 023 in Assessor’s Block 1444 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 703.4, 703.3, 303(c), 303(i), 229(b), 178(e)(2) to establish a Formula Retail Use and to allow the retail sale of beer and wine at an establishment that sells motor vehicle fuel within the NC-3 (Moderate-Scale Neighborhood Commercial) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.The proposal is to establish a Formula Retail Use (d.b.a. 7-Eleven) in a vacant food mart space located within an existing automobile gas station (d.b.a. Park Presidio 76).The approximately 1,850 square-foot 7-Eleven store will consist of a sales floor area (which includes a coffee bar, food service area, and walk-in cooler), cashier area, storage/utility area, office, and restrooms.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Ahmad Ghaderi – Project description
-Olivia Nava – Pedestrian safety exacerbated w/the condition of liquor, homeless
access to liquor
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Antonini , Borden, Hillis, Sugaya
NAYES:Fong, Moore
MOTION:18969
12a.2009.1074CEKV(G. CABREROS: (415) 558-6169)
1433 BUSH STREET- south side of Bush Street between Van Ness Avenue and Polk Street; Lot 024 in Assessor’s Block 0670 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.8, 253, 271 and 303 to allow an automotive rental use, the new construction of a building over 50 feet in height in an RC District and exceptions from the bulk limits prescribed by the V Bulk District.  The project proposes demolition of an existing one-story commercial building containing an automotive rental use and new construction of a 115-foot tall, 10-story mixed-use building containing 32 dwelling units, 26 residential parking spaces and a ground floor commercial space to contain an automotive rental use within the RC-4 (Residential, Commercial Combined, High Density) Zoning District, the Van Ness Avenue Special Use District, the Van Ness Automotive Special Use District, and 130-V Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Anthony Giorno – Project description
= Marlene Morgan – Request for continuance
= Linda Chapman – Cat Ex
+ Chris Schuman – Supports extension of existing car rental
ACTION:After Public Hearing and closing public comment, Continued to December 19, 2013
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini , Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
12b.2009.1074CEKV(G. CABREROS: (415) 558-6169)
1433 BUSH STREET- south side of Bush Street between Van Ness Avenue and Polk Street; Lot 024 in Assessor’s Block 0670 -Request for Variancesfrom Planning Code Sections 134 and 145.1, which require a 25-percent rear yard at all residential levels and establish street frontage requirements in the RC District, including limitations to the total width of parking entrances along a street frontage and requirements that parking be set back 25 feet at the ground floor and 15 feet at the second floor from any  street frontage.   The project site is located on a through lot with frontage on Bush and Fern Streets.  The project proposes new construction of a 115-foot tall, 10-story mixed-use building with a courtyard at all residential levels and the re-establishment of an automotive rental use at the ground floor within the RC-4 (Residential, Commercial Combined, High Density) Zoning District, the Van Ness Avenue Special Use District, the Van Ness Automotive Special Use District, and 130-V Height and Bulk District.
AFTER PUBLIC HEARING AND CLOSING PUBLIC COMMENT, THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR CONTINUED THE MATTER TO DECEMBER 19, 2013
13.2013.0245C(M. WOODS: (415) 558-6315)
2078-2080 CHESTNUT STREET- between Mallorca Way and Pierce Street; Lot 012 in Assessor’s Block 0486A- Request for Conditional Use Authorization, to allow the establishment of a formula retail use (d.b.a. Peet’s Coffee & Tea) and hours of operation from 5 am to 9 pm daily pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(c), 303(i) and 711.27. Peet’s Coffee & Tea proposes to relocate from 2156 Chestnut Street to the subject property,in a NC-2 (Small-Scale Neighborhood Commercial) Zoning District, Chestnut Street Financial Service Subdistrict, and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Project Sponsor
+ Patricia Vaughey – More condition to be more specific cleanness, homeless
+ Chris Hawkins – Garbage cans, yard
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini , Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18970
14.2013.0224C(D. HARRIS: (415) 575-9102)
3331 24th STREET- south side, between Mission and Bartlett Streets, Lot 025 in Assessor’s Block 6516 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 303, 736.24, and 790.70, to establish an outdoor activity area, for seating and bocce ball, located the rear of an existing restaurant (d.b.a. Rustic) in the Mission Street NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and 55-X Height and Bulk designation.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approvewith Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 1, 2013)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to October 10, 2013
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Sugaya
15.2011.0544C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
1700 UNION STREET-at the northwest corner of Union and Gough Street, Lot 002A in Assessor’s Block 0529 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 725.83 and 303 for a wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The proposed macro WTS facility would consist of three panel antennas and related electronic equipment. Two antennas would be façade mounted and screened with a fiberglass panel painted to match the building. The third antenna would be housed in a faux roof vent. Electronic equipment would be roof mounted and screened from view.  The facility is proposed at a Location Preference 6 Site (Individual Neighborhood Commercial District)within the Union Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning, and 40-X Height and Bulk Districts.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approvewith Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 8, 2013)
SPEAKERS:+ Tedi Vriheas – Project Description
-July Duggan – Health effects, location
-Candice McKenzie – Project’s impact on the existing building
= John Duggan – Poor choice of location, equipment location, reduce visual impact
ACTION:After Public Hearing and closing public comment; Continued to October 3, 2013
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini , Borden, Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
16.2013.0539C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
597 MONTEREY BOULEVARD-at the southeast corner of Monterey Boulevard and Foerster Street, Lot 028 in Assessor’s Block 3116 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 710.83 and 303 for the modification of an existing wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by Sprint.  The proposed macro WTS facility modification would consist of removing three roof-mounted panel antennas mounted in a single radome, with three panel antennas, individually housed within three roof-mounted faux vent pipes. Related electronic equipment would be replaced within an existing ground floor equipment room adjacent to a detached garage. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 6 Site (Limited Preference, NC-1 District) within a NC-1 (Neighborhood Commercial – Cluster) Zoning, and 32-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Maria Miller – Project description
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Wu, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Antonini
MOTION:18971
17.2012.0648C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
725 TARAVAL STREET- on the south side of Taraval Street between 17thand 18thAvenues, Lot 052 in Assessor’s Block 2408 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 711.83 and 303 for a wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The proposed macro WTS facility would consist of nine panel antennas and related electronic equipment mounted on the roof of the existing building. Antennas would be screened from view by two faux rooftop penthouse structures, which would be painted and textured to match the existing building.  The facility is proposed at a Location Preference 5 Site (Mixed Use Buildings in High Density Districts) within a NC-2 (Neighborhood Commercial, Small Scale) Zoning, Taraval Street Restaurant Subdistrict, and 40-X Height and Bulk Districts.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approvewith Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 8, 2013)
SPEAKERS:+ Tedi Vriheas – Project description
-Eunice Wu – Notification, fire code, enclosed
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18972
18.2012.0680D(D. VU: (415) 575-9120)
645 DUNCAN STREET– south side between Diamond and Castro Streets; Lot 039 in Assessor’s Block 6604 –Request for Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2011.11.17.9087, proposing to construct a new single-family dwelling on a vacant lot within an RH-1 (Residential, House – One-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:- Tracy Boxer Zill – DR requestor
- Don Buckoch – DR Architect
- Bruce Gill – DR concerns
- (F) Speaker – Neighborhood is opposed
- Mike Miller – Builder showed no interest in the neighborhood, original proposal,
not compatible w/neighborhood
- Diane McCarney = 5-story building is outrageous
-Pauline Shulman – Scale
-Michelle Kad – Topography
-Marla Humphries – Acoustics
-Susan Hu – Opposed
-Carmen Tang – Read letter into the record
-Gale Millface Snar - too tall, not compatible w/Noe Valley
-Bryan Steckaline- Too much
-Grayland Brittle – Not compatible w/neighborhood
-Elaine Bordenson – Opposed
+ Robert Edmunds, Project Architect – Project description
+ Elizabeth Moore – Considers it a reasonable project w/modifications
+ Rebecca Eisenberg – One person’s western views.
ACTION:No DR and Approved as proposed
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
DRA No:0336
G.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
None
Adjournment – 5:42 p.m. – in honor of peter antonini
ADOPTED –October 3, 2013