SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers - Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
Thursday, April 26, 2012
4:00 PM
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:   Fong, Antonini, Borden, Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
COMMISSIONER ABSENT:   Wu
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 8:25 PM.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:  John Rahaim – Director of Planning, Scott Sanchez - Zoning Administrator, Ben Fu, Michael E. Smith, Linda Avery – Commission Secretary.
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.  The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1.         2012.0009CV                                                                                (K. Guy: (415) 558-6163)
1528-1540 Pine Street- north side between Polk Street and Van Ness Avenue, Lot 005 of Assessor’s Block 0646 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationto establish an automobile and scooter repair business (d.b.a. Cars Dawydiak) within the basement and second floor of existing building located at 1528-1540 Pine Street, with accessory automobile and scooter sales located at the ground floor, pursuant to Planning Code Section ("Section") 303. Conditional Use Authorization is required to establish the automotive repair use at the basement level (Section 723.59), establish a non-conforming automotive repair use at the second level (Section 186.2), and establish a use size greater than 2,000 square feet (Sections 121.2 and 721.21). The project sponsor is also requesting that the Zoning Administrator eliminate the off-street parking requirement for the uses, pursuant to Sections 161(j) and 307(i). The project site is located within the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District and the 65-A Height and Bulk District. Tenant improvements are proposed for the building however, the size of the space will not change. Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
(Proposed for Continuance to May 3, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Continued as proposed
AYES:             Fong, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Miguel, Sugaya
ABSENT:Wu
2.2012.0084DDD                                                                   (M. WOODS: (415) 558-6315)
2735 - 2737Baker  Street- west side between Union and Filbert Streets; Lot 002B in Assessor’s Block 0948 –Mandatory Discretionary Review,pursuant to Planning Code Section 317, of Building Permit Application No. 2011.10.27.7765S, proposing to convert the building’s authorized use from two units to a single-family residence, and to construct a one-story horizontal addition at the rear of the two-story over garage two-unit building within the RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  Two requests for Discretionary Review have also been filed by members of the public.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Pending
(Proposed for Continuance to May 10, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Continued as proposed
AYES:             Fong, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Miguel, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2011.0249C(B. Fu: (415) 558-6613)
990 VALENCIA STREET- west side of Valencia Street between Liberty and 21st Streets, Lot 009 in Assessor’s Block 3608 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 726.24, 245.2(a) and 303 to allow the establishment of an Outdoor Activity in the rear of the property for an existing restaurant, d.b.a. “The Blue Fig”, on the ground floor of an one-story building in the Valencia Street NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Miguel, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
MOTION:18603
4a.2011.0584CDV(M. Smith: (415) 558-6322)
601 DOLORES STREET-southeast corner 19thStreet; Lot 060 in Assessor’s Block 3598 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.3(g) and 303 to convert a former church that is currently being used as a single-family dwelling into a private elementary school operated by “Children’s Day School” which is currently operating down the street at 333 Dolores Street.  “Children’s Day School” would maintain both campuses.  The project includes tenant improvements to the building’s interior and minor tenant improvements to the building’s exterior.  The subject property is located within a RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Pat Buscovich, Denise Leadbetter, Michael Fine, Bob Batrick, Landon Gates, Okko Crippando, Eric Fastiff, Keith Eiger, Peter Good, Thy Tran, Anne Gates, Bryan Wu, Sara Bartholomew, Sandra Steele, Lisa Nahmanson, Ben Dillon, Beverly Choe, Noah Horowitz, Marina Franco
ACTION:           Addressing both the Conditional Use and Staff Initiated Discretionary Review:  Approved with conditions as modified to address placement of the boiler; limit use of the rooftop to no later than 9 p.m.; limit rooftop lighting unless necessary for safety; limited white parking zone; Project Sponsor is to continue working with staff
AYES:             Fong, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Miguel, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
MOTION:18604
4b.2011.0584CDV(M. Smith: (415) 558-6322)
601 DOLORES STREET- southeast corner 19thStreet; Lot 060 in Assessor’s Block 3598 -Mandatory Staff-Initiated Discretionary Reviewpursuant to Section 317 of the Planning Code, for the conversion of a dwelling unit into a non-residential use - The proposal is to convert a former church that is currently being used as a single-family dwelling into a private elementary school operated by “Children’s Day School” which is currently operating down the street at 333 Dolores Street. “Children’s Day School” would maintain both campuses. The project includes tenant improvements to the building’s interior and minor tenant improvements to the building’s exterior.  The subject property is located within a RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do not take Discretionary Review and approve
SPEAKERS:     Same as Item 4a.
ACTION:           Addressing both the Conditional Use and Staff Initiated Discretionary Review:  Approved with conditions as modified to address placement of the boiler; limit use of the rooftop to no later than 9 p.m.; limit rooftop lighting unless necessary for safety; limited white parking zone; Project Sponsor is to continue working with staff
AYES:             Fong, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Miguel, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
4c.2011.0584CDV(M. Smith: (415) 558-6322)
601 DOLORES STREET- southeast corner 19thStreet; Lot 060 in Assessor’s Block 3598 -Request for a parking variancepursuant to Section 151 of the Planning Code,to convert a former church that is currently being used as a single-family dwelling into a private elementary school operated by “Children’s Day School” which is currently operating down the street at 333 Dolores Street.  “Children’s Day School” would maintain both campuses. The proposed school would not have any off-street parking.  The project includes tenant improvements to the building’s interior and minor tenant improvements to the building’s exterior.  The subject property is located within a RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
SPEAKERS:     Same as Item 4a.
ACTION:           Zoning Administrator closed the public hearing and stated his inclination to grant the variance
D.         COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
5.COMMISSION SECRETARY POSITION-Discussion and consideration of possible action to identify steps to take to fill the Commission Secretary positiononce the current position becomes vacant in the fall.  The commission could consider, among other related issues, a draft job announcement and the establishment of a working group.
SPEAKERS: Sue Hestor
ACTION:           Following discussion, a sub-committee (Michael Antonini, Gwyneth Borden, and Kathrin Moore) was established to work with the sub-committee of HPC to work on this
6.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I have a question for the Zoning Administrator. Is it possible we revisit or have you read to us the conditions by which we approved the use of the Surf Motel for the Academy of Art? The reason I am asking is because there was a parking lot. At some point we asked if it should be turned into a garden, because they did have permission for parking in that particular court. These last few weeks, two shuttles stand there for the entire weekend, and there were a minimum of 8 or 10 cars.  I distinctly remember there was no permission for parking in the front yard of that particular building.  I am not making it up, but I want you to look at it. That is the Surf Motel on Lombard backing up against Fillmore, and it is used by the Academy of Art for housing.
Commissioner Antonini:
I was going to comment. I think there is an alley behind it if I am not mistaken.
Commissioner Miguel:
I am not trying to get them in trouble, but they have two huge billboards with their dog emblem and I do not know if that is illegal.
7.         Director’s Announcements
None
8.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:No Report
Board of Appeals:
There was one case related to a previous decision for 30 Edith. This was heavily conditioned several months ago. The appeal was withdrawn yesterday. I just wanted to let the commission know about that. Also last night President Mike Garcia announced his resignation from the Board effective May 9.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:no Report
F.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.  When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.  Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.  In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)  responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)  requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.  (Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
None
Adjournment:10:55 PM
Adopted:  May 17, 2012