At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public 
that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.  With 
respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the 
item is reached in the meeting.  Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to 
three minutes. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Georgia Schuttish – Notification 
Please write to Board either as a Commission or individual Commissioners. 
Tell them why the Land Use Committee was incorrect when they declined 
the Commission’s recommendations for the Process Improvement. It 
should be 30 days for all noticing! OTC for pop outs: highly questionable! 
The Pre-Application noticing and meetings need improvement. Envelopes 
for Pre-App meetings must be able to get the attention of the 
addressee…currently they look like junk mail. Meetings should be the 
start of communication with attendees of the meeting….not the dead-
end they are now. 311 Notices should continue to be mailed USPS. 
Consider reducing the radius to immediate neighbors and interested 
parties and groups. CUAs in the R districts for Demolitions and new 
construction must also send plans to the same. 11x17 plans cannot be 
printed at home. Neighbors should not scramble to obtain plans and 
information. Transparency is needed. 
Gus Hernandez – 1355 Fulton Street 
Sue Hestor – Process improvements 
The Planning Commission approved WITH MODIFICATIONs Mayor’s 
Process Improvements Ordinance substantially amending Planning Code 
6/7/18. Friday 6/8 Planning staff transmitted Resolution 20198 to Board of 
Supervisors.  I am providing copies. BOS Land Use Committee heard and 
approved FILE 180423 6/11. This legislation is scheduled for passage 6/19. 
Planning staff did not conduct ANY workshop soliciting input from the 
PUBLIC. Only to Developers and architects. This is major change to 
Planning Code. INTRODUCED May 1. Final passage planned June 19. 
Mayor signs June 20. Discussion with the public – AFTER LEGISLATION 
PASSED. Expediting 100% affordable housing – PASS NOW. Rushing 

San Francisco Planning Commission