SPEAKERS: 
Georgia Schuttish – Welcome commissioner Chan 
The Planning Commission can legalize UDUs and add ADUs….which are tools that 
can increase housing. The Planning Code no longer has minimum parking 
requirements in residential structures…..so garages can be converted to ADUs or 
second units per the underlying Zoning….another tool. The Ordinance for 
Demonstrably Unaffordable Housing has been passed by the Board. Demolitions 
in RH-1 or RH-1(D) neighborhoods will come before the Commission so the tools 
of legalizing UDUs or adding ADUs or eliminating garages will be available to 
increase housing in these neighborhoods. Prior to the Ordinance, as prices spiraled 
up, the Numerical Criteria Value for Demonstrably Unaffordable Housing was 
increased five times between August 2013 through July 2019 by the ZA on behalf 
of the Planning Commission. 
Section 317 allows the Planning Commission on their own, to adjust the 
Demolition Calculations for policy efficacy. While the Numerical Criteria Value was 
adjusted for the RH-1 and RH-1(D), no parallel adjustment has been made to the 
Demo Calcs in order to protect the existing housing presumed by the Code to be 
affordable in the RH-2 and RH-3 from deFacto or Tantamount to Demolition. 
Furthermore, this adjustment is now necessary for the RH-1 and RH-1(D) 
neighborhoods so the same charade with the Demo Calcs won’t happen to 
existing housing in these neighborhoods. Regardless of any other potential changes 
to Section 317 the Commission has the tool of immediately adjusting the Demo 
Calcs per Section 317 (b) (2) (D) just as the Commission has the tools to legalize 
UDUs, to add ADUs and to adapt or to eliminate garages. Adjusting the Calcs can 
protect and preserve existing housing and put a check on Speculation in the RH 
Zoned neighborhoods. 
Katherine Howard – Housing bill, do an extensive analysis 
Linda Chapman – Copies of all rezonings on Nob Hill area 
Tim Paulsen – Oppose So. Van Ness project 
Ozzie Rohm – Pre pandemic agenda 
Jason Henderson – Hub, parkin 
Anastasia Yovanopoulous – Survey of historic places, Hub 
Speaker – Senate bill 902 
Richard Rothman – Pause on building construction approval 
Theo Gordon – Neighborhood character 
Sarah Ogilvie – Integrated society, yes to building 
Jerry Dratler – Affordable housing 

San Francisco Planning Commission