All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
4.         2009.0650C(S. Lai: (415).575.9087)
3936-3938 24THSTREET- north side of 24thStreet between Sanchez and Noe Streets, Lots 044 and 045 in Assessor’s Block 3654-Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections,728.49 and 303, for a change of use from retail uses to a financial service establishment (DBA “Circle Bank”) The subject property is located within the 24thand Noe Valley NCD (Neighborhood Commercial District) and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:In Support:  Bruce Baumann – Representing the Project Sponsor, Kim Castellionis – Project Sponsor, Joe O’Donoghue;In Opposition:  Karen Passen
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Olague, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:17991
5.         2009.0772C(S. Lai: (415).575.9087)
1050 TARAVAL STREET- northeast corner of Taraval Street and 21stAvenue, Lot 022 in Assessor’s Block 2349 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 711.44 and 303, for a change of use from an existing retail sales and services establishment (DBA “Quickly”) to a small self-service restaurant under the same ownership, within the Taraval Street RUSD (Restaurant and fast-food sub-district), NC-2 (Small-Scale, Neighborhood Commercial District) and a 65-A Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Olague, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:17988
6.         2009.0834C(D. Sánchez:  (415) 575-9082)
1050 South Van Ness Avenue-west side between 21stand 22ndStreets, Lot 006A, 053 in Assessor’s Block 3615 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.3(f) and 303 to establish a child care facility providing less than 24 hour care for 13 or more children within the RTO-M (Residential, Transit Oriented, Mission Neighborhood) Zoning District with a 50-X Height and Bulk Designation.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Olague, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:17989
7a.        2009.0304CVRE(D. Sánchez:  (415) 575-9082)
5075 3rdStreet- northeast corner of 3rdStreet and Revere Avenue, Lots 006A, 006B, 007, 007A in Assessor’s Block 5339 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 712.83 and 303 to construct an approximately 10,600 square-foot new single-story public library building within a P (Public Use) and an NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate Scale) Zoning District with a 40-X Height and Bulk designation.  The Zoning Administrator will also consider a request for Variance from the off-street parking requirement.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Olague, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:17990
7b.        2009.0304CVRE(D. Sánchez:  (415) 575-9082)
5075 3rdStreet- northeast corner of 3rdStreet and Revere Avenue; Lots 006A, 006B, 007, 007A in Assessor’s Block 5339 -Request for Variance, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 151 and 305 to reduce the number of off-street parking spaces.   The project is required to provide five off-street parking spaces but is proposing zero off-street parking spaces.  The project proposes to construct an approximately 10,600 square foot new single story public library within a P (Public Use) and an NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate Scale) Zoning District with a 40-X height and bulk district. The Zoning Administrator will consider the variance application concurrently with the Planning Commission.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           The Zoning Administrator closed the public hearing and granted the variance
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
8.         Consideration of Adoption:
<!--[if !supportLists]-->·<!--[endif]-->Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of November 12, 2009.
<!--[if !supportLists]-->·<!--[endif]-->Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of November 19, 2009.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Olague, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore and Sugaya
9.         Commission Comments/Questions
<!--[if !supportLists]-->·<!--[endif]-->Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
<!--[if !supportLists]-->·<!--[endif]-->Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I want to bring to the attention of the Commission in Supervisor Dufty’s November Newsletter there was a note that on December 8 there will be a public hearing with the Transportation Authority giving an update on the Strategic Analysis report which includes a discussion of the use and effectiveness of shuttle services in the city.  I submitted a comment to Scott Sanchez reminding him of the concern this Commission has had regarding observations on the use of the shuttle service by the Academy.  Mr. Sanchez picked it up and submitted it to the appropriate people and anybody from the commission who was interested in attending may do so next Tuesday, the 8that 10:30 a.m. in room 263.  I appreciate Supervisor Dufty’s Newsletter indirectly bringing that to our attention.
Commissioner Antonini:
Last Sunday I had occasion before the 49er game – I actually drove, I usually take public transportation – and I made a bunch of discoveries.  One was that there is a lot of open space, particularly along Cargo and Amador in the area that goes in byIndiaBasin.  I wasn’t aware of this, but there are actually tracks that go all the way down Cargo, probably for industrial purposes, and tie right into the3rdStreetlightrail line.  Also, there is another line that is a Caltrain spur that comes off onCarol Streetand skirts around Yosemite Slew and goes into Hunters Point and there is aGolden GateRailroadMuseumin there.  I followed those tracks.  I think we have some opportunities and this is something that will be discussed at greater length when we have our hearing on the DEIR on that development.  There are some great transportation opportunities that need to be explored on that northern section.  It is Port land and city owned.
Commissioner Sugaya:
[He mentioned an article inDialog, which is about the Director’s views on community and what that means.]
Second, there was an article (I’ve forgotten where) aboutHallidiePlaza[the Cable Car turnaround] and the city’s plan to improve what has always been a rather dismal place.  I was wondering at some point if we could have an informational presentation on that from whoever is working on it, if the other commissioners are amenable.  [There seemed to be several murmurs of assent.]
Commissioner Borden:
I have two comments.  One is I was a little frustrated because I saw in the Business Times, Mornings on Two, and a couple of different other sources, a criticism of our Pet Food Express decision and Proposition G in general in relation to the formula retail legislation and whether or not it was working.  I thought it was really interesting that the portrayal was that there were more people at the hearing in support of Pet Food Express and therefore it was wrong that we didn’t vote for them.  I just want to clarify that because I think for the public they should first understand that first it is not a competition or a popularity contest.  Second, for the people who are speaking for that item had actually requested a block of time instead of having all the people from their group speak.  They actually took the opportunity to create a cohesive argument and that the other side actually read a lot of letters.  The point is that people think that we make planning decisions based on how many, or there were 20 people for and five people against – they are sorely mistaken because the Planning Code is not written that way.  The threshold is necessary or desirable and the burden was actually on the applicant and they didn’t prove it in that case and that’s how the Formula Retail legislation works.  I think it was a mis-characterization and a very unfair characterization to the public-at-large if they think that if they just pack a room with a bunch of people and read a bunch of letters regardless of where they live and what their interest is in the topic, I just think that is the wrong message to send.
On a more positive note, I want to mention that La Casina, that many of you might know, is a commercial kitchen in theMission, is an amazing project.  The whole concept is to spur primarily low income food entrepreneurs an opportunity to create food related businesses by using a commercial kitchen, which they schedule in time to use and make their food product.  They are having their annual holiday fair tomorrow from 4 to 8 p.m.  They are having all locally made products from local entrepreneurs at theMissionCulturalCenterfor the Arts, which is at about 25thand Mission Streets.  I want to support that because it is a great program and we were talking about supporting local businesses.
Commissioner Antonini:
I also read that article in the Business Times.  I think there a couple of valid points they made.  One was that a number of San Francisco based businesses who began here have made the mistake to grow over ten outlets nation wide are now putting most of their businesses outside of San Francisco because of the cost of the Conditional Use process and other things that probably make it cost ineffective to put more branches here.  I’ve always felt that while this process of having the ability to perhaps deny things, I always felt that a discretionary review where the onus is on the opposition to stop the formula retail rather than the conditional use where you have to get the four votes to approve it would be a better system.  But that is not the way we have it right now.
Commissioner Lee:
[The speaker volume was too low to retrieve the beginning of his comments.]  … conditional use, how many actually were approved and disapproved.  More were approved than disapproved and there are still more that are pending.  We had one today that was approved.  On the whole when you look at it, it’s a pretty good process because most are actually approved.
Commissioner Miguel:
I attended a meeting at Planning chaired by Craig Nikitas regarding the shadow study matter that he had been working on.  It was fairly well attended.  A number of people, including myself, have given recommendations as to extensive outreach, more to the parks community perhaps.  There were very few there from that community where it affects them and their interests as well as developers who did attend.  There will be two more meetings coming up.  I don’t have the dates in front of me but they are on the website.  Mr. Nikitas will work with Rec and Park and some other organizations to increase the outreach in that regard.
10.        Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Tomorrow afternoon, at the request of the Middle Polk neighborhood, I, several staff and I believe Supervisor Chiu are going to be doing a tour focusing on some recent development there.
I also was going to bring up theHallidiePlazaarticle and suggest that we come back to you with a briefing on that as well.  We are talking to the Mayor’s Office about the specifics of that and will get back to you.
We are starting what will essentially be a four-year process with ABAG and the Metropolitan Transportation Commission on their projections that must come out by the end of 2013.  We had the first of several meetings.  Apropos to our discussion about regional issues, I’m going to get personally more involved in that effort as well in discussing with the regional planning agencies how we can be more connected to the region and serve regional needs as well as vice versa.  It is something I am personally interested in and I know the city is wanting to be more engaged in.
Finally, I want to mention that pertinent to Commissioner Olague’s request on early budget discussion, we are going to bring to you our early thoughts about the budget and get some feedback from you in two weeks in order to have an early discussion on the budget about requests that you might have in the budget as well as just giving you some real information about the numbers as we see them today.  As you know the city has projected another deficit so we are going to be affected by that.  We will have the request that we have for what our cuts might need to be on the General Fund side as well.  We won’t know the fee side, which is of course most of our budget, until the end of December (what the real numbers are for the first half of the fiscal year).  We will at least know what our General Fund goals are and can share that with you in a couple of weeks.
11.        Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
SPEAKERS:     None
REVIEWS:        None
12.                                                                                                     (K. Guy:  (415) 558-6163)
TRINITY ART MASTER PLAN-Informational Presentation
SPEAKERS:     Topher Delaney - Artist
ACTION:           Informational only – No action
13.(J. JARAMILLO: (415) 575-6818)
2008FIVE-YEAR DOWNTOWN PLAN MONITORING REPORT-Downtown Plan Monitoring Report –Informational presentation on the 2008 Five-Year Downtown Plan Monitoring Report.Chapter 10E of the San Francisco Administrative Code requires the Planning Department to complete a five-year report to measure development trends in the Downtown against the goals of the Downtown Plan of the San Francisco General Plan.  The report discusses employment and development trends, transportation, housing, fiscal revenues and other topics pertaining to the Downtown C-3 district for fiscal years 2002 through 2007.  Informational item only, no action necessary.
Report is available for the public at the Planning Department and can be downloaded from the website at:
http://www.sfgov.org/site/uploadedfiles/planning/Citywide/pdf/Downtown_Monitoring_Report_5-Year_2008.pdf
Preliminary Recommendation: No Action required.  Informational only.
SPEAKERS:     Brad Paul – San Franciscans fro Reasonable Growth; Sue Hestor – San Franciscans for Reasonable Growth; Ernestine Weiss; Miriam Chiong - ABAG
ACTION:           Informational only – No action