All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2. 2009.0499C (S. Lai: (415) 575-9087)
2191 MARKET STREET- east side, between 15thand Sanchez Streets, Lot 137 in Assessor’s Block 3558 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 733.83, 790.80 and 303, to expand an existing wireless telecommunications facility by adding three new antennas on an existing 51-foot tall mixed-use building’s penthouse as part of AT&T’s wireless telecommunications network within the Upper Market NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) District and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS: None
ACTION: Approved
AYES: Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore, Sugaya, Olague and Miguel
MOTION: 18038
3. 2009.0463C (A. Putra: (415) 575-9079)
5630 MISSION STREET- west side between Naglee and Whipple Avenues; Lot 012 in Assessor’s Block 7098 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 711.83, and 303 to modify an existing wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility by installing three panel antennas to a WTS facility that is concealed within a faux-cupola located on the rooftop of a tourist hotel (dba "Mission Inn"), as part of the Verizon telecommunications network in an NC-2 (Neighborhood Commercial, Small-scale) Zoning District, and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS: None
ACTION: Approved
AYES: Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore, Sugaya, Olague and Miguel
MOTION: 18039
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
4. Commission Comments/Questions
Inquiries/Announcements. Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
Future Meetings/Agendas. At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
NOTE: When compiling the minutes it was discovered that the hearing tape was somehow damaged. We were unable to recover recordings prior to what is shown below. We apologize and ask interested parties to access this hearing on the City’s website under SFGTV, Video on Demand. Again, we apologize for this inconvenience.
Commissioner Moore
… I would like to see the correlation including understanding of what that all means. It was a very alarming article. It was very well written.
Commissioner Lee
Darleshe Cyann is the lead person from the Mayor’s Office of Homelessness. If you want to learn about homelessness you should talk to him because he has all the data. The data that you’ve seen recently about 44% actually was done under the Brown Administration. I think it was followed up that many of the homeless have been in the city for less than two years. Therefore, by logic, we have a pretty good homeless program because you have 40% that have been here less than two years. That means that they filled the 40% that found housing elsewhere. So to alleviate all the speculation, I suggest that if you link that to our Housing Element; that you have the person from the Mayor’s Office of Homelessness present, and I’ve seen his presentations before, he does a very good job. They are factual and he has a lot of the data that he gets from Social Services and the Health Department. We also have a breakdown of who is on CalWorks and who gets Section 8. We can lay that on the table to find out the true cost to the city including the mental health program and the substance abuse program. Because many of the homeless are actually duel diagnosed, are ex-veterans. It is a very complex issue. My suggestion is have the Mayor’s Office of Homelessness come here and present the data.
Commissioner Olague
I think it would also be important to include the Coalition on Homelessness, another organization that works directly with the homeless.
5. Director’s Announcements
Acting Director Badiner and Zoning Administrator
Director Rahaim is on a well deserved vacation and will be back next week.
You may have heard that the Mayor has proposed laying off much of the city’s work force and rehiring them at 37.5 hours part time. That has obviously raised concerns among staff. We had a very well attended meeting this morning. We are finding out information as it comes along, but we did have a very good meeting and answered a lot of questions. DHR was kind enough to send two of their representatives there on short notice. We are working through this process and we will see where it leads. The Commission was aware during the budget discussions – we told you that we entered into a joint labor management committee and came up with a proposal that many of the union signed on to and the Department signed on to and we will be presenting this to the Mayor’s Office. In our mind it is one or the other so we will continue to work through this process. But layoff notices will go out tomorrow. I spent last night signing all the layoff notices. It was one of the hardest things I’ve done working 28 years in this office. It was especially interesting to sign my own layoff notice.
6. Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
Land Use Committee:
Seismic Strengthening of soft-story, wood-frame buildings –This commission considered a similar ordinance in September 2008. At that time you recommended three amendments: 1) a definition of “soft-story” buildings; 2) limiting the fee waiver to the seismic upgrade portion of the permit and not the entire permit; and 3) consideration of amending 151.1 to allow tandem parking in RH0-1(s) and RH-2 districts. In October 2009, you considered a revised ordinance that incorporated your recommended modifications and at that time you recommended approval. Since you heard the ordinance, it has been modified again but it has retained your recommendations.This week the Land Use Committee recommended approval of the draft ordinance.
Public Safety Committee:
Planning staff was asked to attend a hearing on a proposed “sit/lie” law so that we may weigh in on potential impacts to our Parks & Plazas program. The item was an informational hearing and no action was taken.
Full Board of Supervisors:
Zoning Map Amendments – 1415 Mission Street Project at Mission & Tenth Streets –The zoning is C-M (Heavy Commercial to C-3-G (Downtown General Commercial). This ordinance is associated with a project that would 1) demolish an existing one-story commercial structure and 2) replace it and an adjacent parking lot with a new 14-story, 130-foot-tall building containing up to 117 dwelling units.This week the Board passed the ordinance on first reading.
UPDATE FROM THE 2/23 MEETING:
Supervisor Chiu’s Parking Requirements and Garage Installation in Existing Residential Buildings in Telegraph Hill, North Beach and Chinatown– At the 1/14 hearing the Planning Commission recommended approval with modifications. Supervisor Chui amended the legislation to integrate all but one of the Commission’s recommendations.At the full BOS, this item passed first reading with two “no” votes. When the item came up for the second and final reading on 2/23, it was continued two weeksand is scheduled to be considered again on March 9.
Introductions:
100233 –Ordinance amending San Francisco Police Code by adding Section 168 to prohibit sitting or lying down upon a public sidewalk during specified hours, and with exceptions for the disabled and others. Introduced by the Mayor and Supervisor Alioto-Pier.
100237 –Resolution extending the life of the Western SoMa Citizens Planning Task Force. Introduced by Supervisor Daly.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
132ndAvenue at El Camino Del Mar– This project was appealed after this commission declined to take DR and I as Zoning Administrator granted a variance. The Board of Appeals upheld our decisions. Last night the request for re-hearing was scheduled but day-before-yesterday there was an appeal of the Cat Ex to the Board of Supervisors. The re-hearing request was continued until the appeal of the Cat Ex is concluded for this single-family home.
Historic Preservation Commission:
There HPC did meet yesterday and there are only two items I’d like to bring to your attention:
Disclosures– The Commission has decided that they want the opportunity to inform the public of any contacts they’ve had with project sponsors or parties interested in any items that comes before them outside the public hearing process. Their discussion was basically to define disclosures and to talk about whether or not they want to include a category in their Rules and Regulations related to disclosures. We did have one or two commissioners that were concerned about having any contact with parties outside of the public arena and to ask the other commissioners to consider not doing so. Other commissioners felt that it was valuable to be able to meet with both sides of an issue in the public arena and outside of it. It is an on-going discussion and I expect that in the near future we will have an item to amend their Rules and Regulations to address it.
Informational Presentation on three Branch Libraries (Merced, Parkside and Park Branch Libraries)– They were not included in the recent actions on the Branch libraries because they had already started their permit processes. The report/presentation was received very favorably with the inclusion of the Commission’s suggestions. Those projects are moving forward.