All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2011.0779Q(C. LAMORENA: (415) 575-9085)
1371 – 1375 GROVE STREET-south side of Grove Street between Broderick and Divisadero Streets; Lot 031 in Assessor’s Block 1201 -Request for Condominium Conversion Subdivisionto convert a three-story-over-garage, five-unit building into residential condominiums within a RM-1 (Residential, Mixed, Low Density) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
ABSENT:          Olague
MOTION:18461
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
3.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I had a meeting this week with representatives of Live Nation in regards to Masonic Auditorium, that will be coming before us in one form fairly soon.  I wanted to acknowledge, I do not know if anyone has asked for an adjournment in memory of Steven Jobs and Al Davis. If that is ok with my fellow commissioners, because these individuals are both self-made individuals and are examples to show the fact that America is a land of opportunity, and if you work hard and save your money and you have an idea and you believe in that idea, you can do well.  And this is the case here, today in this Country. The third item: if any of you have been watching the baseball playoffs and also Monday Night Football, you notice the pictures in Detroit showing for the baseball field and America Park near each other. And if you followed recent history in the United States, Detroit and St. Louis have been the most economically challenged Cities in the Country, having lost large members of their population and they're able to put together the ability to create these facilities and create a spirit of community and this was evident in Detroit. It had been a long time for them on the football field and as far as baseball is concerned but there is more to it than just the facilities. We can take a lesson from some of these other facilities with capital projects that benefit the cities.  And finally, I get mailings at my dental office because I am a property owner there, of projects in the vicinity. These are not items that would necessarily come before us. They're basically items that have been sent for the permit process and the 312 notifications, because property owners have to get this. There is a situation where I lived -- we looked at the design for a particular street and it was an addition to a third floor. Most of them already have third floors, with two over the garage. The others were added in the style of the rest of the house. It looks like a pillbox on the top of here. I asked why this was this way. I ask why this does not look like the rest of this, like the Mission revival with the tile roof, and part of this addition. That is the way they did this the first time. But the staff, I don't know if this was historical or not, but planning staff said to modify this to make it look different from the rest of the house. This is a policy we have to discuss in the future. What are we going to advise the staff, as to how to handle these instances where people are making an addition to their own homes?  We're not talking about historical rated structures. People want to make an addition to their homes. Can they make this contextual?  I am not sure that we need to schedule anything today but this is a conversation we need to have in the future to see how the Commissioners feel about this because obviously, this is being done at a staff level.
Commissioner Borden:
Tomorrow, from 4:00 pm until 8:00 pm, we have a couple of blocks of art by Urban Solutions, an organization that works with small businesses in the Lower Fillmore.  They help them work on their business plans. This will showcase the amazing businesses across Sixth Street. This is between Market and Howard, and artists will be showing their work. The businesses will be open to walk in and discover all of these vibrant businesses. I recommend for you to come out and join us. This will show what a local organization can do to revitalize the neighborhood and how we can help this organization.
Commissioner Moore:
I would like to comment on an e-mail about Board file 11047, with improvements for small business and landscaping qualifications, a proposed ordinance by Supervisor Chiu. I am concerned about receiving this, even for a consideration. For years, all possible, reasonable codes have addressed this, and this particular draft could fall on its face, not only is this a burden for small business owners, unduly challenging historic preservation, and occurring at a time when this kind of change in the ordnance is in no one’s interest. I am not yet aware of how the staff will work on this, and they are normally very astute. They will work with the group to provide a push back and challenge. I want to give my concerns based on what has happened with the City's strong attempts to be in compliance with ADA, given that we live in a City where many buildings fall into having been built before this was the law, having to catch up  with the old and new. I will watch this very carefully and hope that the Supervisors and everyone else who will work on this will engage every possible means to fully understand the implications.
Commissioner Borden:
I did not understand the context for why this has been proposed but they have issues with people who file lawsuits against small-business owners for access issues, but maybe we could have a conversation on the topic to understand this legislation.
Commissioner Miguel:
I also received this memo, and I am concerned, having been a small business property owner in a neighborhood commercial district for well over 25 years. I thought that we were getting out of this. I will stop there, but I do believe the conversation should take place. Also, during the last week, I have had conversations regarding the project at Van Ness Avenue, some extensive conversations regarding legislation that may be going through on student housing, which will also be coming to us as well as continuing conversations with a number of people on changes to Articles 10 and 11.
Commissioner Moore:
Vice-President Miguel, could you please address what the Commission is planning to do instead of having the Small Business Commission and a subgroup of this body meet with each other because we are pushing forward with scheduling a public hearing, on the subject of formula of retail and small businesses.
Commissioner Miguel:
It is my understanding regarding this, that the parameters of this discussion have to be established first, and I don't think that there is full agreement on these parameters between the Planning and Small Business Commissions at the moment. But there is intent with both commissions to have this discussion take place.
Commissioner Moore:
Without having this discussion, we are the legislative body on this and we could create feedback from the Small Business Commission, in order to have as broad a discussion as possible.
Commissioner Miguel:
Whether or not this is a joint hearing or the hearing takes place here – this is what is in the air at the moment.
Commissioner Moore:
I hope that we will not continue this out to next year because this is a very complex issue.
Commissioner Sugaya:
Just to continue, I would be interested in not so much the issues themselves, about small business, but more in terms of the process and why there cannot be a couple of working  committees to sort of flush this out first. I understand there would be the possibility there would have to be a public meeting of some sort announced, but I think there are enough representatives here who would volunteer for this and it could work here. I don’t know about the Small Business Commission.
Commissioner Miguel:
That is a distinct possibility.
Commissioner Sugaya:
I think that you could get a lot more done with a few than having the whole Commission.
4.         Director’s Announcements
5.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
No meeting this week
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and there was one item that may be of your interest, the project was at 524 Howard Street and it was before the Commission on June 9, [you] revoked the entitlement of 212 square feet for the project.  This was filed in 1984 and reauthorize in 1999.  They never commenced construction. If you recall, the project sponsor did not attend but they did appeal the Planning Commission's decision. It was scheduled at the Board of Appeals on August 10 of this year but they did not file an appeal brief. The Board of Appeals rescheduled this item to last night. They did not file the appeal brief for that hearing either and did not attend the hearing. The Board voted to uphold your decision. The project sponsor has 10 days to request a rehearing.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No meeting this week
6.                                                                                                 (C. TEAGUE: (415) 575-9081)
ACTION PLAN UPDATE INFORMATIONAL PRESENTATION– Presentation and analysis regarding the first six months of the Department’s new “Preliminary Project Assessment (PPA) process.
SPEAKERS:     Sue Hestor
ACTION:           Informational – No action required