All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
4.         2011.0726C(S. Vellve:  (415) 558-6263)
1188 FRANKLIN STREET- southeast corner of Geary and Franklin Streets; Lot 017 in Assessor’s Block 0714 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 712.83 and 303, to allow AT&T Mobility to locate up to nine (9) WTS panel antennas flush mounted to the building’s exterior and related equipment on the roof of a four-story office building occupied by the International Longshore and Warehouse Union within a NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate Scale)  District and 130-E Height and Bulk District. The site is a Location Preference 3 (wholly commercial structure).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of December 1, 2011)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore and Sugaya
MOTION:18502
B.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
5.         Consideration of Adoption: 2012 Planning Commission hearing schedule
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved as modified: add 8/16/12 and 11/29/12 as hearing days
AYES:              Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore and Sugaya
6.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I want to thank the Housing Action Coalition for forwarding a reprint from the "New York Times" of a very interesting review of a book,The History of Suburban Corporate Landscape.  The author is from San Francisco, Luis Mosingo, Professor of Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning at UC Berkeley. What is really interesting is the history of how we got into the situation we're in. In the first place, I guess, the business part from 1942 when AT&T and Bell Telephone moved some of its offices from Lower Manhattan to somewhere near New Jersey, and that was the beginning of a trend that happened over the next 70 years or so, which is unfortunate, because in addition to the environmental waste in using private agricultural land, it also does some other really negative things. It segregates these people from the rest of the community, because they basically, if they do not get there by automobile, they cannot get there, and they do not leave the place during their working hours, because the cafeteria is there and there's no place to go. Sidewalks do not connect these to any other place where you can go. So you use the civic connection you have in cities with shopping, housing, recreation, and transportation. It points specifically to various places, certainly with reference to Silicon Valley. Some of the Silicon Valley business parks, but also Bishop Part in the East Bay and that is a classic example. But that did very poor land use, because they spread out what could be condensed into one City block over acres and acres over what used to be prime farmland. The author suggests a number of different things we can do and it would certainly help to stop Federal and State governments from paying for new highway extensions to make these kinds of business parks and other development of agricultural land possible.  And also, at least require exits to make connections between these parks to the nearest housing and near a town so people can take transit there, walk there, or bicycle there, not necessarily have to go by automobile, and perhaps even patronize those areas of little bit more. Third, which I think is a key point, provide favorable tax increments for businesses that locate within established urban areas and perhaps even have an extra tax for companies that should choose to promote further sprawl into suburban areas. And this is also true, to a large degree, for sports and entertainment complexes, and we have all seen the great success with AT&T Park and how people get in and out of there pretty easily.  It is truly a fabric of San Francisco and the entire Bay Area. Although Candlestick is much maligned, last Sunday, as I have done many times, I walked from the T-Line to Candlestick, an easy half mile walk, as is the case with Caltrain. Many people take buses. I notice probably 20% or more actually use public transportation to get in and out of games, which would not be the case if you built some complex in the middle of nowhere without any public transportation. Anyway, that being said, I think that it is a really good article and hopefully we can begin to influence sensible public policy in regards to relocating business into urban areas and helping the environment and also, you know, helping people to intermingle with each other and not be so isolated.
Commissioner Miguel:
Just to tier onto Commissioner Antonini's comment one of the other thing that business parks do is they have all of these jitney fleets that are exclusive to their particular businesses. There's no cooperation among them. They all operate roughly the same route. And it just clogs things even further. Aside from that, in the past week, I had discussions with people regarding Geary BRT, if that ever comes to pas; the item on our calendar today - the AT&T Towers on 14th Avenue; some of the aspects of America's Cup; and the project that is proposed for the old CALA Foods site at California and Hyde.
President Olague:
I just wanted to ask that we close the meeting today in honor of Michael Goldstein.  He was an activist in the LGBT community, and he watched our broadcast here all the time and spent a lot of time educating me, at least, on issues that pertain to the need for affordable housing for different low-income communities and medical cannabis issues as well. It was a huge loss. He passed away last Friday. I would like to close in his memory.
Commissioner Moore:
I assume that everybody has read in the paper that the W hotel filed an appeal on the Museum.  On another point, the AIA has created a website to connect tall projects with architects and investors.  That was a very interesting thing, actually a nationwide thing, and I thought that was projected to give people an ability to really look at what is on the board and what might be part of financing. I think it creates a message in regards to them being active in that. So we will be off a lot at the end of the year. Historically, we have always been.
7.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Three announcements from me today: One is that at long last, our Communications Manager will be on board in about three weeks, by the middle of January. We had cleared the necessary arrangements to hire her, and we're pleased she will be joining us at long last. Second, in your packet that you will receive this afternoon is a memo on the budget. We're at that moment already - starting the budget process. Seems like we just ended, and we are starting again. In fact, we just ended. The memo is kind of looking at year to date, this fiscal year. It covers the data we have, which is the first four months of this year, and looked ahead to how we are doing for the current fiscal year. You will be having a series of hearings early in the year, including your first meeting on January 12, when we will be starting the budget discussions for next fiscal year. Third, is a reminder that, like last year, the Department's primary offices will be closed during the holiday week from December 26th.The Permit Counter will be open, as well as DBI's, but the actual Department offices will be closed for that week.
8.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
§Hearing on the Status of Formula Retail.This week the Committee heard a request from Supervisor Mar on the growth of formula stores in the City and County of San Francisco and their impacts on our small businesses, neighborhoods, workers, and economy.  Planning Department staff had conferred with the Supervisor in advance of the hearing and he had requested that we provide an updated version of the report we shared with this commission over the Summer.  Staff updated that report on the basic definition of formula retail, a history on how the City has legislated the issue since 2004, and a status on the number, type and results of permit applications for formula retail.  Staff from the Small Business Commission spoke on the economic impact of chain stores vs. local stores as did a number of community advocates included representatives from locally-owned hardware stores, pet stores, and a group title “San Francisco Locally Owned Merchants Alliance or SFLOMA”.  Other speakers from outside SF included employees of Wal-Mart who had organized a group titled “Save our Wal-Mart” who sought living wages for Wal-Mart employees. Members of the public questioned both the appropriateness and the methods by which the Department interprets PC language that asks us to consider the FR concentration within the NC District. The Committee members expressed sentiments in support of economic equity with Supervisor Cohen seeking certain formula retail opportunities in her district, and Supervisor Mar concluding that the City should sensitive to economic impacts of these stores on local businesses and that the issue is ripe for revisitation.  Supervisor Mar will be asking for a study on economic impacts in the future.The hearing was concluded without action to the call of the chair.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·Appeal of CU for wireless antennas at2041 Larkin Street.This Commission approved the CU with a 6-0 vote on 9/22. In this case, the appellants' questioned the “necessity and desirability” of the installation. They claimed that the Preference one location wasnotthe best location for these antennas and the a better location would have been somewhere within the Polk NC District. At the hearing, Department staff presented the material that had been presented to the Commission when you granted the CU unanimously on October 6th.  Staff explained that Public sites such as this Church have been the City’s First Preference for Antenna siting since 1996 and that while the Board of Supervisors had asked for some changes to the lesser preference criteria, both the Board and the Commission have maintained that these sites provide the best alternative for securing cell coverage in otherwise residential districts.  At the hearing appellants claimed that open DBI enforcement complaints should have prevented issuance of the CU.  Staff explained that we had checked with the DBI Deputy Chief of Inspections and Enforcement and that we were assured by DBI that there were no active violations or issues that warranted withholding the permit.  The appellants compared AT&T’s coverage maps presented to the Commission which showed coverage gaps vs. coverage maps shown by AT&T’s marketing arm which shows good coverage in the Russian Hill area.  After public comment the district Supervisor, Board President and the District Supervisor Chiu asked Planning Staff about this conflicting information.  Staff described that these maps were not specifically presented to the Commission for their consideration but that the Commission had found AT&T’s coverage maps to be compelling.  The Board then rigorously questioned AT&T about the coverage maps.  Supervisor Wiener moved to reject the Commission’s CU but to approve a new CU with a new condition that Planning Staff pick an independent, state-licensed engineer to make an objective evaluation of AT&T’s cell coverage in this area.  Planning staff is to consult with both the appellants and the project sponsor on this selection and any potential consultant would have to sign a confidentiality agreement acceptable to AT&T.  If this evaluator finds a gap that would be improved by the new antennas the CU will be approved.  If there is no gap or a gap that is not improved by this antennae installation, the antennas will be disapproved.    AT&T will fund the costs charged by this independent evaluator.With that new condition, the Board voted8-3 (Avalaos, Mar, Mirkarimi voted no)to add this to the Conditional Use authorization.
·The Board then heard an appeal of a subdivision at 1138 Page street that had some planning issues.The Planning issues revolved around the number of units at the property and whether CEQA review had been completed.  In this case there were two units but only one permitted residential unit and one commercial unit.  The appellant had claimed that if there were two residential units, the property should have gone thru the condo-conversion lottery prior to subdivision.  Staff informed that Board that since this property was a single family dwelling with a commercial unit and not two residential units, the subdivision was permitted.  Staff also presented evidence that CEQA had been performed twice on this permit: once on the building permit and once on the subdivision: both times the same Cat Ex determination was reached.The Board voted 11-0 to uphold the subdivision.
·111315Ordinance amending the San Francisco Planning Code Section 713.61 to: 1) allow an automobile sale or rental use in NC-S Districts as a conditional use.Elsbernd.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
There were a number of items on their calendar. Most of them were pretty routine. Just three items I want to bring to your attention. They heard a Certificate of Appropriateness for 940 Grove Street, lovingly called the “Painted Men”.  Most of the Commissioners expressed that they were not overly “wowed” by the proposal before them. Part of the conversation included comments that theycould be differentiated in three proposals: the three buildings could be differentiated by their exteriorpainting; the design of the center windows could be call out differently; and they definitely wanted the roof overhang on the north side set back by 3 feet. They also wanted the garage color to not be painted gray. With those suggestions and a few others, they did approve it. They also heard the proposed legislation by Supervisor Chiu on building uses; floor-area ratio; parking, and compliance by use districts.  This is an item that will be coming before you. They had a very robust discussion of the item. Ultimately, they agreed to continue the item to a later date, but did direct staff to write you a letter with some of their comments. The last item was a discussion on the extension of the F-Line Streetcar service. They also directed staff to write a letter indicating their support of that proposal. But they did want to point out that they wanted to have particular attention paid to platform design and landscaping, as well as some other issues.