All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
1.2011.0803Q(B. BENDIX:  (415) 575-9114)
626-628A Natoma Street- northwest side of Natoma Street between 7thand 8thStreets; Lot 048 of Assessor’s Block 3727 -Request for Condominium Conversion Subdivisionto convert a three-story, five-unit building into residential condominiums within an RED (Residential Enclave) Zoning District, a 40-X Height and Bulk District, and the Western SoMa Planning Area Special Use District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18478
ITEMS 2-4 WERE TAKEN OFF CONSENT CALENDAR
2.2011.0750C(S. Young:  (415) 558-6346)
1737 POST STREET, SUITE 330 (AKA 22 PEACE PLAZA – LOCATED WITHIN THE INTERIOR OF JAPANTOWN CENTER KINTETSU WEST MALL)- south side between Webster and Buchanan Streets; Lot 009 in Assessor’s Block 0700 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 712.69B, 249.31, and 303 to establish an Amusement Game Arcade (Mechanical Amusement Devices) Use within the NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate-Scale) Zoning District, Japantown Special Use District and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.  The proposal is the change of use of an approximately 800 square-foot ground floor commercial space (to be vacated by a retail clothing store d.b.a. The Omodaka) to an amusement game arcade establishment and retail store (d.b.a. Playland Japan).
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Jay Cowan, Bob Hamaguchi
ACTION:           Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18479
3.2011.0648C(S. Vellve: (415) 558-6263)
1555 IRVING STREET- southeast corner of Irving Street and 17th Avenue; Lot 041 in Assessor’s Block 1771 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 730.83 and 303, to allow AT&T Mobility to locate up to six (6) WTS panel antennas within an expanded rooftop marquee  and related equipment within the building of a one-story educational institution (Woodside International School), within the Inner Sunset Neighborhood Commercial District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The site is a Location Preference 1 (publicly-used structure).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Tedi Vriheas, Jonathan Patchen, Michael Beck and Tony Kim
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18480
4.2011.0288C(S. Vellve: (415) 558-6263)
2300 - 2320 CHESTNUT STREET- northwest corner of Chestnut and Scott Streets; Lot 009 in Assessor’s Block 0929 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 711.83 and 303, to allow AT&T Mobility to locate up to nine (9) WTS panel antennas within faux vent pipes and behind screening,  and related equipment within an outdoor storage area at grade of a three-story mixed-use building, within an NC-2 (Neighborhood Commercial, Small Scale) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The site is a Location Preference 5 (mixed-use building in high-density district).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Tedi Vriheas and Christian Crawford
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18481
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
5.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Special Meeting of October 20, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of October 20, 2011
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved adoption
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
6.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
With your permission I’ll use a football analogy.  Those of you who follow the game know that no time for possession is very important. The team that is on defense all the time is usually on the losing end. Unfortunately, in last 30 or 40 years we have often been on the defense in San Francisco; trying to keep our businesses here; keep families with children here and protect our civic institutions. I' m beginning to see we are starting to make a few first downs and keeping the ball and taking pressure off the defense. In the last few years, we've seen an increased desire for people to live in San Francisco and that is a good sign. What I'm hearing from a number of sources is there are businesses looking to relocate and I think they're beginning to understand that a presence in San Francisco has a greater value for your business than in other parts of the Bay Area, California and perhaps even the United States. A couple of studies came out from some reputable sources on the value of a new football stadium. They were working on three different teams, the Chargers, the Raiders, and the Forty- Niners. In particular, they looked at the value of a new football stadium in Santa Clara as opposed to San Francisco. They concluded a stadium in San Francisco added an additional $150 to $160 million in value to the owner of the team in contrast to a similar stadium in Santa Clara .This is just one instance, but we are starting to see people realize they have to look at the value of their business. It's not just the location, there are a lot of factors that make businesses more valuable if they are in San Francisco. That is something we have to address and continue to build upon.
Commissioner Miguel:
During the past week, I've had conversations regarding an item on today's calendar; also regarding America's Cup and the interface between the Port and the City. This is coming very fast. The basic trial races are less than one year away. I am not sure everyone in the City realizes how fast this is coming down on them and the amount of work that has to be done prior to that happening.Commissioner Fong:
I just wanted to report I was able to attend the SPUR annual luncheon.  There may be some history, but I was interested to find out if the Planning Department doesn't have or has had a table or participate in a more formal setting.  Maybe we could have a discussion about that and maybe there's a good reason why not.
Commissioner Moore:
Following up on Commissioner Miguel's comment – there is an open house with an update on the America's Cup with various aspects of information that is just now becoming public. I think it is open to the public and the discussion will be between the design task force and the Waterfront Advisory.Commissioner Antonini:
I did meet with a group -- there was a gas station that will be a CVS Pharmacy. They are in the process of working with staff to refine the design of that. I was contacted by a property owner that has to do with an addition he is trying to put on his house and directing him to how he can work with staff and go through the process, which is a long and involved one.
President Olague:
I received a couple of the mails from members of the public who have consulted with Edgar Oropeza at the counter regarding the tracking system. It was suggested we have him come and make a presentation about its capabilities. Maybe in the next few weeks we can have him come in and perhaps even the vendor could come in.
7.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I wanted to mention that SPUR is opening a branch for the first time in San Jose. I bring that up because I think it is good for the region to have a planning organization located in a different part of their region discussing regional issues.
8.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE: NONE
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
§Alcoholic Beverages in Bowling Alleys in the Mission Alcoholic Beverage Special Use Subdistrictintroduced by Supervisor Kim.The Planning Commission had unanimously passed a resolution at its September 22, 2011 hearing recommending that the Board of Supervisors adopt the proposed Ordinance, with one substantive modification:
•to include an additional exception for single-screen movie theaters, allowing these theaters to serve beer and wine.
Supervisor Kim has amended the Ordinance to include the both of the two recommendations of the Planning Commission.This week the Full Board passed the Ordinance on first reading.Supervisor Wiener noted his desire to repeal the existing Alcohol RUD in its entirety as he feels it freezes in place existing entitlements for detrimental uses without contemporary conditions of approval but doesn’t allow newer uses with modern restrictions in place. Supervisor Kim agreed with the need for larger changes and stated that she would purse additional outreach to allow this sort of change in the future.
§Acts of God and Calamity Ordinance.At the July 14th, hearing, the PC recommend that the Board adopt the Ordinance with modifications.  Specifically, the PC recommended the Ordinance be modified to allow a reasonable degree of flexibility for those who have experienced a calamity but not to be overly permissive in allowing rebuild of nonconforming uses. Since the PC hearing, staff has recognized that the recommendation should have been applied not only to Section 181 Non-Conforming Uses but also mirroring changes should have been recommended to Section 188 Non-Conforming Structures. Both Sections have the exact same problematic and vague existing language.This week the Full Board approved the item on first reading.
§4141 Geary CU appeal.This Tuesday, the Board heard a CU appeal for the placement of cellular antennas at 4141 Geary Blvd, site of a Kaiser medical office Building.  This Commission heard the CU in July.  Last week arguments were made and public comment was taken prior to the Board closing the public hearing.  This week only the Board Members addressed the issue.  Last week at the close of the hearing, Supervisor Mar had asked that he project sponsor present their confidential data to a neutral third party for analysis and presentation to the appellants.  The appellants refused to participate in this analysis of cell capacity and coverage because they still felt the study may be biased. In his comments, Supervisor Mar again stated that he believes the Planning Department should have technical experts on staff that can independently verify capacity and coverage data submitted by cellular companies.  The Supervisor didn’t feel that the project sponsor met their burden to prove that the additional antennas were needed.  He stated that he would like to work with the Department to address the issue of necessity for additional antennas at a Citywide level. This week was the last week to reverse the decision of the Commission.  The Board discussed disapproving the CU and approving an amended CU which would be tied to an independent study of the necessity for the antennas.   Supervisor Mar made a motion to overturn the Commission and deny the CU.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No meeting this week
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No report