All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
5.2011.0256C(A. PUTRA: (415) 575-9079)
98 WEST PORTAL AVENUE-  northwest corner of West Portal Avenue and Vicente Street; Lots 009 and 010 in Assessor’s Block 2931 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 729.83, and 303 to establish a new wireless telecommunication services (WTS) facility consisting of six panel antennas located on the rooftop of a financial service building with a Location Preference 6 (Wholly Commercial Structure within an Individual Neighborhood Commercial District), as part of the AT&T wireless telecommunications network in the West Portal Avenue Neighborhood Commercial District, and a 26-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
MOTION:18496
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
6.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of October 27, 2011
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
7.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
The other night I was fortunate enough to attend the opening of an exhibition which is at the Palace of the Legion of Honor featuring Vernini’s Medusa.  They had an incredible sculpture that had never come out of Italy until recently and we are fortunate enough to be at one of the two American Cities where this will be displayed. If you have not seen this, it would be nice to go and see it. But I think what we can learn is how great the architecture and sculpture and the design was during the Renaissance. We can learn some lessons on not to be critical of modern architecture.  If they can do those things with chisels centuries ago, we should be able to create beautiful things in this era as well. Hopefully, we can continue to move forward and see that we are supportive of the arts and also supportive of moving the City into another Renaissance. We have this from the early part of the 20thCentury. It is important that we continue supporting art so we can create some nice things in San Francisco.
Commissioner Miguel:
Some interesting things this week: 1) there is a temporary stay on the AT&T Lightspeed Street Boxes.  This is by the Superior Court.  This was before us as an informational item awhile ago. I saw a presentation regarding the project that will be coming to us in the future, which was very interesting, on 134 housing units on Illinois and 22ndStreets, where the SF Opera has kept their equipment for many years. 2) I attended the Chinatown-Broadway Design Workshop in Chinatown last afternoon. It was fairly well attended. The Department did an excellent job. The presentation was in Cantonese, Mandarin and also in English. This is the design of the last three major blocks that are coming out of the tunnel and this looks very good. This will be an improvement in my estimation. 3) An interesting article referenced this morning that the San Francisco rental market is at its most crowded. This is since 1999. This is 3.2%, and then the cost of rental is up 9% in San Francisco. The projects that come before this Commission from the pipeline will speed itself up. There was a court decision, and I don't have all the details on this, but it is regarding the 8 Washington project, the court upheld the Port term sheets. There was a legal action filed against this.  4) The San Francisco Planning Code in 1944 was 12 pages.  We have three volumes now. By 1957 this was up to 60 pages. 42 pages in 1950, and by 1974 this was 134 pages. I don't have the count, presently, but this is into the many thousands of pages. This is just amazing when you look at History and how the City has changed and put things into their coats, and when I talk to people in other areas, we're cutting down more trees to put in coats than any City in the County.
Commissioner Moore:
It came to my attention that a City passed a very interesting and supportive ordinance to keep people from being evicted in the course of foreclosure. This is the first one in California, and the first one in the Country. At a time when cities have to deal with homelessness, this was very proactive and positive. This was done by the City of Merced
Commissioner Olague:
I have talked to some members of the African-American community.  We're waiting for Commissioner Borden to return from her leave to have a hearing on the migration of African-Americans.  This will be scheduled in February. We want this to coincide with Black History Month.
Commissioner Sugaya:
The latest issue of the San Francisco Times is carrying an article on the new condominium development at the foot of Howard Street. There is an existing garage.  This is interesting but it seems to imply that things are looking up a little bit.
8.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I just want to report on the zoning conference in New York. This was unusually good. Basically, this was to give ideas to New York City on how to get along with the zoning changes. The City is growing at an incredible pace with 200,000 residents. The growth in New York is almost unprecedented. They are expected to be about 9 million soon. This was a very interesting topic because they looked at the zoning with speakers from the city, and in the afternoon they had speakers from other cities including Washington and London, to talk about future changes. This was very well organized and I was happy to be part of the discussion.  Following Commissioner Miguel and his comments about rental housing -- the actual project will move forward in the discussion, the largest of which is the Crescent Heights Development, which started construction a couple of weeks ago. This is a very large project. Behind that, there is the affordable housing that they are also moving ahead with. I would just like to remind the Commissioners that in light of the Thanksgiving Holidays the Department will be closed on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. The office will be closed for three days next week.
9.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
No meeting this week
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals considered a couple of items.  The first was regarding BOS sponsored legislation; the second was a violation of the penalty.  This is the appeal of the violation because they failed to continue with the violations of approval. The project did not require the units, so they raise some issues in the brief to the Board of Appeals regarding these allegations. The Board was very persuaded by the testimony.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The Preservation Commission had a few items. The Architectural Review Committee heard 49 Julian and was impressed with the modifications made based on the prior suggestions. One of the commissioners thought this was sufficient, and that the project did not need to be modified any further. They did not agree on a further modification that there would require a further setback that would bring light to the smallest [north] window of the Drill court. They acknowledged that this was just a suggestion. The last item they took up the modifications from Supervisor Weiner regarding Articles 10 & 11. They were very upset that the Supervisor continued to make modifications and suggestions, but failed to appear before the Commission.  One commissioner was expressed this concern and was ready to table the whole thing until the Supervisor comes before the commission to make his case. They heard the modifications.  Some of them were acceptable and some were not. They have drafted their comments on modifications for you to consider before you take action.