All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
4.2011.0591Q(C. LAMORENA: (415) 575-9085)
307 PAGE STREET-southwest corner at Laguna Street; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 0581 -Request for Condominium Conversion Subdivisionto convert a four-story mixed-use building with six dwelling units and commercial space on the ground floor into six residential condominiums and one commercial condominium within a RTO (Residential Transit Oriented) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
SPEAKERS:     Tinsen Sherra
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18457
5.2011.0539C(S. Young: (415) 558-6346)
2113 UNION STREET-south side of Fillmore and Webster Streets; Lot 027 in Assessor’s Block 0540 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 703.4, 303(c), and 303(i) to establish a Formula Retail Use within the Union Street Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD) and a 40-X Height and Bulk District. The proposal is to convert a vacant approximately 1000 square foot commercial space (previously occupied by “Hill & Co. Real Estate”, a real estate office) to a retail sales establishment (d.b.a. Wireless Store), a retail store specializing in wireless phones, communication devices, and accessories located on the first floor of a two-story over basement commercial building.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18454
6.2011.0307C(R. Sucré: (415) 575-9108)
1156 Valencia Street- located between 22ndand 23rdStreets, Lot 010 in Assessor’s Block 3635 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 121.1, 121.2, 726.11, 726.21 and 303 to allow a use size in excess of 3,000 sf on a lot containing greater than 10,000 sf of development. The proposed project would construct an additional 2,124 sf for use as a gymnasium and accessory office to an existing 11,148 sf building (d.b.a. Salvation Army) within the Valencia Street NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and a 55-X Height and Bulk District.
NOTE:Planning Department staff has determined that the project only requires Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 121.2 and 726.21 for use size in excess of 3,000 sf. The project does not require Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 121.1 and 726.11 for development on a lot above 10,000 sf.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18455
7.2011.0571C(B. Bendix:  (415) 575-9114)
1085 Mission Street- south side, between 6thand 7thStreets, Lot 107 in Assessor’s Block 3726 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 303 and 840.47 to add a bar to a previously approved full-service restaurant (d.b.a. AQ) within the Mixed Use – General Zoning District,and a 85-X Height and Bulk District. If granted, the Conditional Use Authorization would allow the applicant to seek a Type 47 License from the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. This license would permit the sale of beer, wine, and distilled spirits for on-site consumption in association with the restaurant. The use is not identified as a formula retail use.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18456
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
8.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of July 7,  2011
·Draft Minutes of Closed Session Meeting of July 14, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of July 14, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of July 21, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of July 28, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of September 15, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of September 22, 2011
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved as corrected
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
9.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I wanted to commend Sophie Hayward on the quick turnaround on clarifying the motion on the City Center Special Sign District, as she indeed corrected what the Commission had verbalized. However, there is an inconsistency with the final recommendations. If the signs are moved forward of the drive for parking, the sign might have to be low in order to be in the proper angle relative to people in the car reading it. That would come out in the Department working with other alternatives. I want to put that on notice, because as the sign comes closer, you cannot expect people to jerk up their head. They still have to have the proper angle, which is basically described by the speed distance from the sign. I want to make sure the understanding of the motion is properly implemented. I appreciate it very much.
Commissioner Antonini:
I want to thank Mathew Snyder in particular because of a meeting that I had with our architects, and it was in regards to project Candlestick Cove, and I think under certain circumstances that when you have an untitled project that has been titled for signature in the past, and there has been a change, sometimes it is brought back to the Commission for full review. Others are brought forward with the understanding that they encourage projects and architects to contact the commissioners. Another commissioner has spoken to them on this.
I think this is a really good policy. In fact, I would encourage wherever possible that wheneverprojects are being planned, that whenever possible we have really early input as to design on projects, because we have seen many projects, and we have one today that came out very successfully that we will discuss later, but it took time and was redesigned before this finally came out.If we can intercept these things early, then I think it saves a lot of time and money and process. This was good, and I am glad we were able to do that in this particular instance and wherever possible, if there is a way that commissioners can get an early look. Not all commissioners will agree on design, of course, but at least to get input and be able to address some of the concerns. Thank you very much for doing that.
Commissioner Sugaya:
On Tuesday I attended a Japantown Better Neighborhood Committee meeting on cultural resources, the entire committee staff is working on bringing to us a presentation on cultural resources. They are working toward that deadline.
Commissioner Miguel:
The past couple of weeks I have had a couple of meetings regarding the Medical Center; Walgreen's regarding their pending request for a liquor license; the Masonic auditorium; a couple of meetings on the San Francisco Outlook Project, both with the developer and the neighbors; and  regarding the Academy of Art.
Commissioner Borden:
I know we discussed the issues of conditions of approval before, but I talked to a member of the public that was still upset about a project. We talked about a hearing to delineate which hearings are enforceable by this Commission and which are not and I think we might want to look at having a hearing about that topic, because I know it is something that a number of others have brought up in the past because people come together with a laundry list of things they would like to see happen. Sometimes we put them in, and sometimes we do not.  But most the time we do not have the ability to enforce them, and that creates a situation of tension because people do not understand we cannot enforce the conditions. Maybe we could have a discussion around conditions of approval for different types of projects, and then general public education about what is the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission for some of the other bodies that interact on projects we have entitled.
Commissioner Olague:
We do have a growing list of special hearing topics, so we should probably go over thatnext week at the meeting so we can start calendaring things.
Commissioner Antonini:
I intend to meet with the neighbors on this. This is [quite a] way from coming before us, but this is good early intervention and starting to work with various constituencies to see if something can be worked out and make something a lot better as it finally comes to us.
Commissioner Olague:
We did have a request to hear an item that we always have scheduled for the end of the calendar by 5:00, so we will take that item out of order if the calendar has not gone to that point by 5:00. That is number 17. It is an unusual request from one of the people involved with that case has to attend the memorial service, so we want to respect that.
10.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
As some of you know, I am asking that we adjourned the meeting in memory of a staff member that passed away suddenly this week. He passed away Tuesday after a very unusual accident over the weekend. He had been with the Department for 30 years as of two months ago, on August 2nd. He was one of the people on the staff who always had a smile on his face and had good things to say to people. A couple of things he worked on were:  early on in the 1980's he worked briefly on commercial zoning and he was also responsible for getting the Department computerized. He was one of the first people to teach himself on the use of technology long before any of us had computers on our desks. He recently worked on the Downtown 25 Years Report. It was a sudden loss. We ask that you adjourn today's meeting in his honor.
On a more positive note, I would like to let you know that the Small Business Commission actually has given staff a special honor – a certificates of honor to two staff, Jonas Ionin and Dan Sider, who I do not think is present today, was one of them. This past Monday the Commission gave the certificates of honor acknowledging the contributions they have made to the small business community, both providing excellent service to small business owners, to navigate the complex zoning regulations and their timely response of research and guidance to the commission. We're very pleased with the staff working hard in that capacity. It was a nice honor for them.
I just wanted to mention that I met with the new Director of Engineering at the VA Hospital.Finally, after a while of trying to somehow connect with them, we had a very productive discussion about their plans and we understand that they will be considering a lot of new options in the Master Plan. That was very good to hear. We agreed to have regular meetings and ongoing discussions on that, even though technically we do not have entitlement power over them.  It is a Federal Agency, but it was important for us to have that discussion.
11.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Acts of God and Calamity Ordinance..At the July 14th, hearing, the PC voted 7-0 to recommend that the Board of Supervisors (herinafter “The Board”) adopt the Ordinance with modifications.  Specifically, the PC recommended the Ordinance  be modified in two ways.  First, it should allow a reasonable degree of flexibility for those who have experienced a calamity but not to be overly permissive in allowing rebuild of nonconforming uses.  Second, the Ordinance should be modified to include the retroactive date of retroactive operative date of August 1, 2009. Since the PC hearing, staff has recognized that the recommendation should have been applied not only to Section 181 Non-Conforming Uses but also mirroring changes should have been recommended to Section 188 Non-Conforming Structures. Both Sections have the exact same problematic and vague existing language.With these amendments, the Land Use Committee forwarded the Ordinance to the full Board for this Tuesday’s hearing.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
INTRODUCTIONS:
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Director Rahaim:
I attended the meeting yesterday; the Preservation Committee did meet yesterday. They had further discussion on Supervisor Wiener's proposed amendments to Articles 10 & 11, but continued action until their next meeting two weeks from yesterday.  You are also scheduled to have a discussion/hearing on Articles 10 and 11. They are meeting on the 27thof October.