All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2011.0308D(R. CRAWFORD: (415) 558-6358)
1430 LARKIN STREET- east side between California and Sacramento Streets; Lot 017 in Assessor’s Block 0249 -Mandatory Discretionary Review, pursuant to Planning Code Section 317(f), of Building Permit Application No. 2009.1216.3365, proposing to legalize the conversion of a dwelling unit on the second floor of a residential hotel into two residential hotel units within the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District and 65-A Height and Bulk District.
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do not take Discretionary Review and approve
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           The Commission did not take DR and approved legalizing the conversion of dwelling units.
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
DRA:0243
4.2011.0966C(M. Smith: (415) 558-6322)
1509 SLOAT BOULEVARD (A.K.A LAKESHORE PLAZA SHOPPING CENTER)- south side between Everglade and Clearfield Drives, Lot 004 in Assessor's Block 7255 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 703.4 and 303 to establish a new, formula retail, coffee shop (d.b.a. “Peet’s Coffee & Tea”) in the 900 square-foot tenant space occupied by “Tully’s Coffee” in the Lakeshore Plaza Shopping Center.  The site is located within a NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial Shopping Center) District, the Lakeshore Plaza Special Use District, and a 26-40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:    Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18498
5.2011.1116C(E. Watty:  (415) 558-6620)
700 FILBERT STREET (AKA 1811 POWELL STREET)-at the intersection of Columbus Avenue, Via Bufano, and Powell Street; Lot 008 in Assessor’s Block 0090 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(c), 722.69A, and 790.93, to allow a “Self-Service Specialty Food” establishment (d.b.a Victoria Pastry) within the North Beach NCD (Neighborhood Commercial District), the North Beach SUD (Special Use District), the Telegraph Hill – North Beach Residential SUD, the North Beach Limited Financial SUD, and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18499
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
6.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of November 3, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of November 10, 2011
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
7.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Olague:
I wanted to take the time to wish our secretary happy birthday. I know she makes her job with us look really easy, but I do not think there are many people that can fill her shoes. She does an incredible job. I just want to thank you publicly.
Commissioner Miguel:
During the past couple of weeks I have met with some people regarding the cell tower matter on 14thAvenue in the Richmond and on the soccer fields. There was a forum on understanding 68 ft buildings, which I thought was an interesting title, but actually the forum itself was even more interesting, and it was very well attended. The Market Street Design Advisory group held their monthly meeting this week. That is coming along very well. A lot of help from excellent consultants, and the other night our Director introduced a program at SPUR regarding the Central Corridor, also very well attended. The Director can probably give you more details on that. I've met with some people regarding the Kaiser Medical Office Building and Housing Project on 16th and 17thStreets.
Commissioner Antonini:
A couple of things:  First of all, congratulations to the football teams from Mission, Sacred Heart, Cathedral Fighting Irish, and St. Ignatius Wildcats. As you probably know, the Mission Bears won their first AAA football title on turkey day since 1954, and that is really heartening to hear, because that program was in danger of being discontinued a couple of years ago, and they have managed to win the City title. Congratulations to Sacred Heart and St. Ignatius.  They meet each other in the football finals for their particular division. It will be held this Saturday night. It will be the first game ever played at AT&T, a really good thing for those programs.  Happy to hear they are doing well. On a less bright note, there was another tragic fire in the Mission District. I believe it happened between Valencia and the Mission last night. That brings to mind the fact that we are fortunate to have a great stock of wood frame homes, but the fact is that most of them are in need of upgrades for electrical and plumbing and seismic. I have asked in the past, and I will see if I can interest members of the Board of Supervisors in some sort of legislation that would incentivize and make it possible for owners to realize returns that would allow these buildings to be made safer and more habitable, and in return the owners would contribute to affordable housing, much as we do with new housing. We have to have the same concept for older housing. We have to find a way to get these made into safe and functional dwelling units for the people that are there. Finally, I had an inquiry from people about the parking situation in the South Beach Area. I have made a few phone calls. That is a discussion we had in the past, and that was concerning some of the existing garage parking on surface lots and what their status is, and maybe I can take it upon my own to talk to staff and find out exactly what the different restrictions are as far as surface parking vs. garage parking and be able to respond to people about concerns on whether it will be lost or not.
Commissioner Borden:
I notice there is a request for proposals for parklands, and one of the things I thought about when I walked by a residential hotel where there are a lot of people milling about, because they do not have an open space to hang out in. I was wondering if we might look at how we can work with the affordable housing providers about having parklets at residential hotels. These are people that do not want to stay in their small room all day long, but they do not have anywhere else to be, and sometimes they are obstructing the sidewalk because that is the only place they can be. Why not look at a pilot program in some of these buildings to make sure that people who need open space have access to it. Tomorrow I am talking to a group from the Lakeland Economic Development Council. There is a group of executives from Silicon Valley that are looking to stretch their tech university from the ground up, and they really would like to come and look at Mission Bay relative to their salesforce and the campus. They are here to study best practices. I wanted you to know people do still think we have best practices. Obviously they have a different economic situation. It is more of a smaller city, but they are really pro-active at looking at how they can create jobs for people by focusing a lot on education, which I think is a smart approach.  When we are having these conversations about housing and jobs and looking at how we can help facilitate that; working with City College or with the State to figure out how we can work across ecosystems; because I think the key to people being able to afford housing is obviously having a good job.  To the extent we can support those institutions in the City that do that work, I think it would be worthwhile.
8.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
As Commissioner Miguel mentioned we had a public meeting on Tuesday night to release our initial range of possible additions to the Central Corridor Plan. We prepared alternative scenarios and asked the public to give us feedback on those. Those will be on line today or tomorrow. We are asking for public feedback on the various developments and zoning scenarios for the Central Corridor, which reminds everyone that is roughly between Third and Fifth Streets. Secondly, I wanted to mention there is an upcoming community meeting related to the Landmark District, next Wednesday at the Harvey Milk Center for the Arts from 6:30 - 7:30 PM.  I wanted to let the Commission know that they are invited to the Memorial for Scott Dowdee.  That will be Saturday, December 3, 2011. The service will begin at noon, reception to follow at 1:00. It is at 100 Diamond Street.
9.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
§Two Ordinances related to San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (SFMOMA) Expansion/Fire Station Relocation and Housing Project.:The Planning Commission heard these ordinances and recommended approval on November 10.  This week the LU Committee heard ordinances for theRezoning & General Plan Amendment.The rezoning Ordinance would rezone a parcel from Public (P) to Downtown-Support District (C-3-S) and a portion of a second parcel from Mixed Use- Residential (MUR) to Public (P).  The General Plan amendment would make minor conforming amendments.  Planning Director, John Rahaim, and Ken Rich from the Mayor’s Office introduced the item.  Deputy Fire Chief Monica Fields and Acting Director of Real Estate John Updike were also at the hearing.   The Hotel W expressed concerns about street vacation.  The City staff responded that SFMOMA would need to preserve access loading dock and for valet parking when the related project permits are considered in the new year and the project sponsor also offered to negotiate a license agreement to guarantee of access for the W Hotel. The other speakers at the hearing voiced support for the project.After a short hearing, the Committee recommended approval of the two Ordinances to the Full Board of Supervisors.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·Appeal of199 Leland Avenue.Last week the Board considered an appeal of a Conditional Use authorization to install wireless antennas at 199 Leland Avenue. The appellants' written statement to the Board stated simply that the project was not “necessary or desirable” .  At the hearing, Department staff presented the material that had been presented to the Commission when you granted the CU unanimously on October 6th.  This site was a preferred site, type 5, as the proposed antennas would be located on a mixed use building in an NC-2 district.  Many community members came to the hearing stating that the antennas should be sited elsewhere or disputing the need for the antennas.  After public comment the district Supervisor, Supervisor Cohen stated that she believed that the CU was appropriate but that she believes the outpouring of sentiment demonstrates that the City’s framework for evaluating wireless antennas should be overhauled and that if citizens are concerned about health impacts they should lobby the federal government which has preempted the City’s ability to regulate the airwaves.With those comments, the Board voted 10-1 to uphold the Conditional Use authorization.
·111247 Five Feet Ground Floor Height Increase in the 40-X and 50-X in the NC-3 Zoning District Along Geary Boulevard. Sponsor: Mar
·111256 [Hearing - Growth of Formula Stores in San Francisco]Hearing on the growth of formula stores in the City and County of San Francisco and their impacts on our small businesses, neighborhoods, workers, and economy.Sponsor: Mar
·111278 Art and Design Educational SUD at 1111 Eighth St.To establish the Art and Design Educational SUD to facilitate the continued operation of the California College of the Arts and provide a regulatory scheme for a potential future phased expansion of the campus.Sponsor: Cohen
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No Report