All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2011.0497D(B. FU: (415) 558-6613)
650 2NDSTREET- west side between Brannan and Townsend Streets; Lots 059 & 060 in Assessor’s Block 3788- Mandatory Discretionary Review, under Planning Code Section 317 requiring review of Loss of Residential Units Through Merger, of Building Permit Application Nos. 2011.01.14.8412 and 2011.01.14.8416 proposing to merge two live/work units into one live/work unit in an existing 25-unit (proposed 24-unit) live/work building, within a MUO (Mixed Use, Office) District and within a 65-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review (DR) and Approve Project as Proposed.
SPEAKERS:     Pat Otellevi and Sue Hestor
ACTION:           The Commission did not take DR and approved the merger
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
DRA:0236
3.2011.0160C(S. Lai:  (415) 575-9087)
291 DUBOCE AVENUE- southeast corner of Market Street and Duboce Avenue, Lot 058    in Assessor’s Block 3534 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 731.83, 790.80 and 303 to add seven new antennas on the penthouse and roof of a commercial building with associated equipment, with a Location Preference 2 (Preferred Location – Co-Location Site), as part of the AT&T wireless network within the NCT-3 (Moderate-scale Neighborhood Commercial Transit District) and a 40-X and 85-X height and bulk district.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18468
4.2011.0418C(A. Putra: (415) 575-9079)
5630 MISSION STREET- west side between Naglee and Whipple Avenues; Lot 012 in Assessor’s Block 7098  -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 711.83, and 303 to install a wireless telecommunication services facility consisting of 9 panel antennas on the roof and associated equipment cabinets on the second floor of a tourist hotel with a Location Preference 2 (Preferred Location – Co-location Site), as part of the AT&T wireless telecommunications network within an NC-2 (Neighborhood Commercial, Small-scale) Zoning District, and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Olague,Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
MOTION:18469
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
5.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
To the comments on housing issues: you’ve probably seen a lot in the press about repossessions and there was a big article in The Chronicle. I think the City is doing a very good job regarding some of the protests that are taking place as far as the Occupy Now and still protecting free speech rights by also protecting the rights of the vast majority of the public that also has the right to use public space that other people are occupying.  I hope that the same things are being applied, that you don't block passage ways, that you have permits, that there are no encampments or cooking. This is what is being done, just as if you're using a baseball field in Golden Gate Park for part of the day.  When your usage is over, you have to vacate so someone else can use it. On the larger issue of some of the causes I have not heard much discussion about remedies from any of the people who are protesting. I think a lot of the factors that exist in this situation are similar to what happened in the late 20's. A lot of it, in both instances gambling on appreciation. In the late 20's, people were buying stocks with the idea that the increase in stock prices would allow them to make a lot of money. When stock prices fell, they lost much of their income because they had gambled on stock appreciation and the situation that is occurring most recently was doing the same thing with real estate. I think we need some positive steps in this direction, particularly with owner occupied home mortgages. We need a more conservative appraisals, I like to see an end of the loan payments and in variable mortgages, and probably mandatory mortgage insurance. This would prevent the kind of thing that has happened in the past from happening again. There are a lot of people that should take the blame and obviously, it has been talked about a lot. While banks and Wall Street had a lot to do with that, the folks that borrowed either ill-advised or made bad choices and even the Government that funded a lot of these bad loans through government agencies with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or other agencies, it was partly because of this. Hopefully out of this entire thing will come with some solutions on a Federal basis that we can apply to this unfortunate situation and not have that happen again.Commissioner Miguel:
During the past week I have had some conversations regarding America's Cup. Last night, there was an excellent reception for the 10th anniversary of City Car Share that was well attended. The main speaker was Nancy Pelosi, who from the beginning has been a very heavy supporter and a proponent of this concept particularly here in San Francisco. There were three meetings this week at which members of the Planning staff really shined. One was on the implementation of the Eastern Neighborhoods.  They did a wonderful presentation on that. It was excellent for the Department.  There was the monthly meeting of the Market Street Civic Design Group and I have to compliment David Alumbaugh who has been doing excellent work on this somewhat large committee of people who are sometimes very independent and no way that they worked professionally, but have been getting along beautifully in the meeting is and really producing a lot of good work up till now.  And there was a public meeting of the Arts Funding Legislation that Supervisor Chiu has put forth a public meeting. It was fortunate that the Arts Community was very well represented. The development community that also was affected by this was totally absent. I am not sure, and I've talked with those from the Art Commission as well, and additional work will be done to get the development community at least to acknowledge that there is something possibly happening with this. In particular, an old friend of mine that was President of the Black Rock Foundation was there and did an excellent job of explaining what funding for the arts community can do for the civic realm. He really did an excellent job of that.  It was an interesting week.
Commissioner Borden:
I wanted to thank my colleagues for indulging me earlier. As many of you might know, this is the Great California Shakeout where we raise awareness about earthquake preparedness and ataround 10:20 A.M., people were told to drop, cover and hold on because that is what you need to do in an earthquake.  [You should get] underneath the surface like this desk or under a door frame would be a great way to keep yourself safe. We can't emphasize enough how important it is to be prepared, or how important earthquake preparedness is.  22 years ago Monday was another earthquake – we all need to make a plan and be prepared. The second thing is I went along the two blocks of Sixth Street on Friday night.  It was just an incredible opportunity to see what was going on along that area of Sixth Street. All the different businesses; you had a band playing in the Laundromat, you had people drawing on the walls, it was an amazing display of art. It was pretty spectacular. It was a longtime studio in the Filipino Community, and with the help of the Redevelopment Agency after being pushed out, they were able to be in a position to have a brand new studio come on line and it was an amazing evening to see what is starting to happen along Sixth Street. If you haven't been on Sixth Street, patronize the businesses.  The vacancy rate is under 10%. That is because there was a lot of hard work on solutions to help fill those facades. What they need is for all of us to go and patronize the businesses and support them.
Commissioner Moore:
Congratulations to the Planning Department on October 26 at 3:00 p.m., the Public Advisory Committee will give a demonstration on the new permit process and permit tracking system which will tie those departments closer together. This particular meeting will be held in Room 2001, and I assume that the public will be interested in how this becomes a more effective tool for all of us. There are some people that might want to see what that entails. For many years, we have been encouraging and supporting the Department for the length that I have been sitting up here, a little more than five years. I am looking forward for a much clearer and streamlined operation that provides timely information and provides recourse.
Commissioner Sugaya:
Last week, I had occasion to go by the Piazza Market again.  And since the last time this issue came before us, I think it has gone totally in the other direction. I think they were modest before in that they needed to comply with the original conditional use that was supposed to be for a market. Now there is not one stick of grocery at that place at this moment whereas before, there was the pretense of it being a market and they had some shelving. Now the place looks like a wine bar. The entire center space is nothing but tables and chairs. I think we need to take another look at this. Also following the market, I walked down Columbus and there is a parklet. I don't know how the enforcement works, but it is obvious that this parklet is just an extension of the restaurant. They're serving people, taking orders, what ever. I don't think that was the intent and I don't want them to turn it into a mere extension of a private enterprise within the public realm. If that is going to continue to happen, we should start charging them rent. That is all I have at the moment.
Commissioner Miguel:
That is happening all over the City. It is very obvious. It is my understanding they are not allowed to take orders, not allowed to actually bring food to the table. It is happening all over the City. The Academy of Art is occupying 625 Polk Street, a historic building, I believe, a landmark. And I am not saying they shouldn't have, for public safety, but they have put safety lights on the exterior all around that building. And are making changes to the exterior of the historic building. I presume this should take quite a bit of procedure. I question whether it has been followed in this case, and I would like someone to take a look at it.
Commissioner Antonini:
I also have had meetings in the last week or two with the Project Sponsor and Architect for 1800 Van Ness Avenue, which is on today' s calendar and with both neighbors of Nob Hill and representatives of Live Nation in regards to concerns of a future project --  it will be coming back to us.
Commissioner Moore:
I would like to ask that this Commission have a presentation by the Department relative to where we encourage and support parklets. I assume it is part of a larger comprehensive planning department idea rather than what can potentially be of use to a particular location.  As you will recall from the issue last week, putting it on California Street on a project that for other reasons I did not support, it was not part of a comprehensive idea.  I am interested to hear you constructively speak to the larger ideas of how we believe parklets can help a street become more neighborly. We want to support them, and we are not. In addition to, if they become potentially the tool for mitigating other impacts, do we have a fund for money being collected so we can build them where we want them? Are they only occurring where somebody suggests they should be? I would very much like to hear a more comprehensive presentation by the Department.
6.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
With respect to parklets, we can do that presentation. We allow people to take food and we encourage them to be near eating and drinking establishments just because of the nature of what most of them, not all of them, are about. The agreement is that we should not be -- we can take them from across the way or another location. I realize that there are some concerns about some of them in the way they are operating. The other thing I wanted to call attention to the Commission is that the Commission has had several questions about the approval process for America's Cup, there is a memo to you outlining all of that, and it would be helpful for the public to hear that certification of the environmental impact report is currently scheduled for December, tentatively. There are other actions required at the Port Commission as well as the Board of Supervisors. Beyond that, there are 12 other City Regional, State and Federalagencies that have approval actions. All of the other actions including the Board of Supervisors are dependent on your certification. That has to happen before any other approving actions can be taken. I wanted to clarify that for Commission and the public.
7.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Alcoholic Beverages in Bowling Alleys in the Mission Alcoholic Beverage Special Use Subdistrictintroduced by Supervisor Kim.The Planning Commission had unanimously passed a resolution at its