All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2012.0041B(R. Sucré: (415) 575-9108)
444 De HARO STREET-located on the southwest corner of 17thand De Haro Streets, Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 3979 -Request for an Office Development Authorizationunder Planning Code Section 321 and 803.9(c) for approximately 90,500 square feet on the first and second floors within the UMU (Urban Mixed Use) Zoning District and a 48-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     John Kevlin, Project Sponsor
ACTION:           Approved with proposed conditions
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden, Miguel, Moore
EXCUSED:       Sugaya
MOTION:18653
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
4.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Increased housing prices is the subject of an article in today's Business Section of the paper.  The article talks about various cities in the United States, and one of them is San Francisco, which never had a huge fall in prices, but did have some areas that were challenged. There was conjecture in the article as to why this happened. One thing that was mentioned was cities where there are a large number of upper income households with better incomes during the recovery. It mentioned that fewer than 11,400 professional service sector jobs were reported recently in San Francisco, and that is an increase of 2,400 from last year. To give you a perspective on why this is important in the downtown areas, the lack of jobs to attract people, for example, I think San Diego and Charlotte, the figures I have show only 45,000 jobs in the downtown area. Those jobs are not there, and they are sometimes attractive to people to live in downtown areas. They're facing a long commute in the same area. The jobs would have to come first. There is certainly nothing wrong when we are building housing to note that large numbers of housing, the market rate housing is above the 20 percent, because if someone buys them or fix them and adds the tax revenue and moves new citizens into San Francisco to create jobs for our citizens and our work force here -- I think that is an important thing to look at if we consider this. A lot of cities would love to have this problem. They have been trying to do some things in Phoenix to create a downtown. Even though they have a lot of projects there, the large concentration of residents in the downtown area, student housing connected with the branch of the university and other cities cannot attract retail, even in some of the glamorous city's, the people want to be here is very beneficial and we should keep that in mind as we talk about other subjects later in our calendar.
Commissioner Miguel:
I had a few meetings this week on items on today's calendar. One regarding the project at Parcel P, the Old Central Freeway Parcels, Natoma, and 14thStreet, I went to a meeting with the MTA. This one was out in the Richmond. In my mind, it was a lot of fluff with no new information, and of course, no estimation whatsoever as to when and if that would come to pass. It was the same solution for the Presidio Intersection and Fillmore intersection. So, one very interesting meeting was the Civic Design Review. We have seen that in the paper this week, the design for the new control tower. It's interesting, because you could really call it a beginning. What was even more interesting was the information from the FAA, who could deal with the top of it. Not just the staffing. They designed the top and they tell the architects to figure out some way to get it up there. The angles; the sidelines to where they have to go; the tilt of it – It was a very interesting experience for me, and of course, taking a look at the rest of it, which, truthfully, I think we will have a major piece of architecture sitting out there. It is very interesting. A very tight geographic relationship between terminals 1 and 2, they had one where the people had not been through security. I think once it is going, you will be very pleased with it.
5.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
In light of the hearing last week, we would like to schedule some more detailed briefings on the background information on the plan. We are happy to do that in public hearings or individually with you as well, to talk about that.
The second thing, with respect to our budget, the Committee met to approve our budget this week. There are still some points of [dis]agreements, if you will. They have chosen to wait until this afternoon when they will be voting on the entire budget, our department budget. The issue is a couple of positions and whether they should forward or not. I will say, in spite of what has come up, most of the changes to our budget were accepted by the Committee. So, we are having discussions with members of that committee all week long.
6.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE: no Monday hearing.
If you recall, the commitment in the DA was for CPMC to keep St. Luke’s open for a 20 year term. That provision has not changed. However, there was also metric that would allow CPMC to close St. Luke’s if the SF CPMC system -– were effectively in “dire financial straits”. During the initial negotiation, “dire financial straits” meant that CPMC would have to be operating below a 1% margin for two consecutive years. This 1% metric wassignificantlybelow any projections they had at the time, and would also trigger a drop to their Moody’s credit rating. Based on input from an independent third party, City staff believed that this 1% operating margin was a highly unlikely reality for CPMC in the coming years.
Based on some new, more conservative projections about revenues, CPMC’s projected operating margin in the coming years is now lower than previously projected, and although it does not reach the 1% threshold, it does not provide the City with the same level of comfort in representing a highly unlikely scenario for CPMC. The City wants to make sure that if there is any “out clause” in the continued operation of St. Luke’s, it is one that is unlikely to be met, since the continued operation of St. Luke’s for 20 years is one of, if notthe,most important provision of the Development Agreement.
OEWD staff noted that this information was only recently provided to the City, and the goal had been to come to the hearing on Monday with a solution, not just the problem. Although this did not happen, OEWD staff is hopeful to have a new solution to this provision of the Development Agreement soon, understanding that the Development Agreement will not move forward until there is consensus on a new agreement for this provision.
This new information was the focus of the Supervisors’ questions. President Chiu and Supervisor Campos were particularly upset that they had not been informed as soon as this information was provided to OEWD staff. OEWD staff concluded the presentation reaffirming the goal of having an “iron-clad” agreement, and acknowledging that this agreement won’t move forward without an iron clad agreement on the provision of St. Luke’s continued operation.
The next land use hearing is scheduled for July 9th, and will focus on transportation and public realm, the City’s Health Service System, and the Controller and Budget Analyst’s Reports. It is expected that the Land Use Committee will forward the items to the full Board without recommendation, since there is a pending appeal of the FEIR.
One July 17th, the full Board will hear the FEIR appeal along with the first reading of the proposed Ordinances.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
Two appeals of 601 Dolores Street were to have been heard.  These were continued.  Currently there are eight planning appeals pending before the Board in July.
July 10 Appeals
§800 Presidio Subdivision Appeal(Cabreros / Rodgers) Appeal scheduled forJuly 10.  Internal & city atty review goal: June 27.  Response due July 2.
§Beach Chalet EIR(Lewis/Jones) Appeal scheduled forJuly 10.  Internal & city atty review goal: June 27.  Response due July 2.
§55 Laguna Street C. of A. Appeal.(Caltagirone/Frye) Appeal scheduled forJuly 10.  Internal & city atty review goal: June 27.  Response due July 2.
§TCDP EIR(Jones) Appeal scheduled forJuly 10. Internal & city atty review goal: June 27.  Response due July 2.
July 17 Appeals
§CPMC EIR(Jain.)  Appeal scheduled for 6/12àCont. to7/17. Our response will be due Monday, July 9 at noon.
§1100 Lombard Cat Ex Appeal.(Tam/Watty).  Appeal scheduled for 5/15à5/22à6/26à7/17.
July 24 Appeals
§601 Dolores Street Cat Ex.(Lewis/Turrell)  Appeal scheduled for 6/19à6/26à7/24.
§601 Dolores Street CU(Smith, Rodgers) Appeal scheduled for 6/26à7/24..  Response submitted.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No meeting
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No meeting