All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be
        routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call
        vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items
        unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which
        event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a
        separate item at this or a future hearing
5.2011.0894C(K. Durandet:
        (415) 575-6816)
3481 18THSTREET- south side of 18thStreet between Valencia and Lexington, Lot 145,
        Assessor’s Block 3589 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization,
        pursuant to Planning Code Sections 178 and 186 to an add outdoor activity area
        to an existing Limited Commercial Use authorized as a restaurant (d.b.a.
        Regalito) within the RTO-Mission (Residential Transit Oriented) Zoning District,
        and a 55-X Height and Bulk District. Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with
        Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18521
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
6.        
        Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements. 
        Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or
        inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas. 
        At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a
        Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda
        of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I would like to thanks
        the San Francisco Forty-niners for a great season, regrettably, with a sad
        ending. I was thanking the 49ers., with particular reference to that defense,
        not to the exclusion of the entire team, but for one of the greatest seasons the
        defense has had in the history of the NFL.  That should remind us, as San
        Franciscans we always have to be tenacious in the defense of our traditions,
        institutions, and civic treasures and always be tirelessly a good advocate and
        representative of our City.
Commissioner Borden:
This week, I met with J.
        Mathews.  While I was meeting with him on a second item, we were talking about
        some of the things going on with planning.  He had spoken with Commissioner
        Moore previously but was wondering how they can work more closely with the
        Department on the innovative initiatives with greater transparency and more
        innovation. They are very interested in learning about the permit tracking
        system we're going to look at next week and maybe we can invite him to join us
        for that so we can know more what he is doing in that space. We' e looking at
        how to create innovations within existing departments to make it easier for the
        public to go through a very serious city process these and to figure out how to
        better work with his office because he is one guy trying to figure out all the
        different city agencies. If there is a way we can work with him, because we
        interface with the public so much more frequently that would be useful. He was
        eager to hear we were hiring a communication person and I would like to look at
        how that would apply to other departments as well.
Commissioner Moore:
I would very much support
        what you just said. He is a terrific guy and we would have a very good ally in
        things that we are interested in being involved in including new technology and
        communication. I want to bring to the Commission's attention an article I saw in
        the paper which is only hinting at San Francisco begins issuing medical
        marijuana dispenser permits again. I would like our staff to at some point to
        [get] less than a short-term brief of how they see it from their perspective
        regarding the newspaper article. It seems to be pointing into the direction of
        what the City policy is. I found the article quite interesting. I would be happy
        to pass it around.
President Miguel:
I recently met with people
        from San Francisco MOMA and it was very interesting. I have been talking to
        people at North Beach regarding grocery stores and have met with the people at
        the Metro Theater which may finally come to pass. It seems a distant memory when
        that was before us. I was also at a public meeting regarding the Waterfront the
        other day on the playground proposed. They have done an excellent job with it
        and there is great enthusiasm, particularly from a lot of little kids who
        recognize all of the play equipment and really like it. Yesterday, one of the
        noontime forums regarding retail and fresh food and trying to get more of it
        into various areas of San Francisco was a very interesting forum.
7.        
        Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I just wanted to give you
        a brief review of my talk in Seattle the last couple of days.  I was there at
        the request of an organization that had been called The Cascade of Land
        Conservancy and has recently changed their name. I am not quite sure why the
        change except they are expanding their purview and they were more a traditional
        land conservancy agency and they have expanded their mission in recent years. 
        With a basic understanding that's in order for them to take care of the land
        outside the urban areas and control urban sprawl, they need to spend more time
        and attention on what happens to make those more livable and all walkable. It is
        interesting to see that perspective. What happens outside cities is related to
        what happens inside cities and that is interesting. They started a rural to
        urban transit development program where the development rights are sold and
        transferred to the center City of Seattle. It is pretty interesting. It is
        something we had done 15 years ago in Seattle and it is very interesting. I also
        want to report that the City received a very interesting award this past week.
        It is an international award from the Institute for Transportation Development
        Policy granted to the City. It is an interesting program they have put together.
        Our program is to take over underutilized rights of way. They mentioned those
        programs and gave us a strong acclaim for the work we're doing.  They also made
        a strong point of mentioning the City's Bicycle Plan and network related to
        those programs, but this is a substantial reward we are to receive.
        Congratulations to the staff and the department for all of the work on those
        things.
8.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of
        Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·CEQA Appeal.The Board heard
        an appeal to the Commission's certification of the 34th America's Cup, James R.
        Herman Cruise Terminal and Northeast Wharf Plaza Environmental Impact Report.
        The appellants included Francisco Tomorrow, Golden Gate Audubon Society,
        Waterfront Watch, Telegraph Hill Dwellers and Sierra Club San Francisco Group. 
        The appellants alleged approximately 40 arguments in five letters which included
        the following issues:
·EIR
        process
·Mitigation Measures
·Aquatic Park impacts
·Neighborhood impacts
·Long Term development
·Boat Counts
·Funding
·Transportation
·Air
        Quality
·Noise
·Recreation
·Biology
·Wind
·Hazards
·Water Quality
Staff responded
        to these claims and answered Board questions. The project sponsor committed to
        removing the jumbotron plans in Aquatic Park cove and find a landside
        alternative. On a unanimous vote 10-0, the Board upheld the commission's
        certification and denied the appeal. The AC34 project will be back before the
        BOS for potential action on the Development Disposition Agreement on February
        14.
·120023 Appointments, Redevelopment Successor Agency Oversight Board - Nadia
        Sesay, Olsen Lee, John Rahaim, and Bob MuscatMotion confirming the Mayor's appointments of Nadia Sesay, Olsen Lee, John
        Rahaim, and Bob Muscat to the Redevelopment Successor Agency Oversight Board.Mayor,Malia Cohen,Jane Kim,Christina Olague.  Amended & Passed.
INTRODUCTIONS:
·120047  Including Financial Services within definition of Formula Retail.Ordinance amending the San Francisco Planning Code by: 1) amending Section
        703.3(c) to include financial services within the uses subject to formula retail
        controls in NC Districts; 2) amending Section 806.3(c) including financial
        services within the uses subject to formula retail controls in Mixed Use
        Districts; 3) amending Section 303.3(i) making conforming amendments; and 4)
        making findings, including environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302
        findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and with the
        Priority Policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.Mar.
·120058 Hearing on the impact of fees deferred, under theCity's Fee Deferral
        Program on affordable housingin San Francisco.  Mar.LandUse.
·120056  Hearing to receive update on the City's plans in light of State actionsdissolving the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency. Hearing topics to
        include: 1) impacts to General Fund; 2) organization structure and staffing; 3)
        impacted project areas; 4) status of Low-Moderate Income Housing Fund; and 5)
        other Redevelopment project work.Carmen Chu,John Avalos,Malia Cohen,Jane Kim,Christina Olague.
        Budget & Finance.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No
        Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No
        Report