All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
5.2011.0605C(S. Lai: (415) 575-9087)
2199 Market Street-east side between 15thand Sanchez Streets; Lot 036 in Assessor’s Block 3558 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(i) and 703.4 to convert a vacant commercial space into a formula retail use at the ground floor, (d.b.a. Verizon Wireless – Wireless Store/Premium Retailer) within the Upper Market NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and 50-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Michael Williams, Paul Garcia, Rashed Rashed, Andrew Torralba, Erik Honda
ACTION:           Approve with encouragement to Project Sponsor to continue working with the neighborhood group
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18561
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
6.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Sugaya:
I'd like to have staff or whomever consider bringing notification when the department receives legislation from the Board of Supervisors for our consideration. That is not -- what I mean by that is that I assume that the Clerk and the Board transmits legislation to be considered by the Board.It is not brought to the Commission until another date, I'd like to have a memo or something that says this piece of legislation has arrived at the Department.  I mean the ones that will eventually end up on our agenda, not just the inquiries that come from the Board.
Commissioner Miguel:
During the past week, I met with people regarding the Baker Street project before us. Also, at the request of President Fong I have been participating as his designee to the Arts Commission, or more particularly at the Civic Design Review Committee. We just finished work on the two large bathrooms in the Mission District, Dolores Park. It is amazing that being a civic building it doesn't come to us. The Arts Commission is doing everything that the Planning Department would normally do, and I think they do a relatively good job. I think a little more involvement with the Department would ease things along. I will work on that in the next month or so.
7.Director’s Announcements
None
8.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
The changes require that the Ordinance will be heard again, next Monday at Committee.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
§EN Legitimization extension -This Ordinance was introduced by Supervisor Cohen. It would extend the period of time which property owners of nonconforming uses in the Eastern Neighborhoods, who are operating without proper permits, can submit applications to legalize their uses. You considered this Ordinance on February 23. At that time you requested 2 modifications:
In response to the Commission’s request, Supervisor Cohen modified the Ordinance per your request but extended the deadline slightly longer to November 12, 2012.This week the Board passed the Ordinance on first reading.
·Public Art Fee.  This Ordinance is sponsored by Mayor Lee and Board President Chiu.  It would amend the public art requirement to allow certain projects to pay into a new fund instead of providing on-site art.  The Planning Commission considered the ordinance on October 27.  At that time you made a number of recommendations which could be summarized into three issues:
1.Ensuring the continued production of permanent, monumental art is balanced with the new possibility of ephemeral art.
2.Updating the requirement so that it applies to all large development, not just that within the C-3.
3.Ensuring that public open spaces are activated and identified as public with physical works of art.
Since the Commission action, the Board President and the Mayor’s Office have conducted further outreach with interested parties and developers.  The Ordinance has been amended to address the Commission’s concerns and to expand the Art Requirement beyond the C-3 district.  Supervisor Chiu has introduced amendments that would apply the requirement to non-residential projects over 25,000sf and that have submitted their first complete Development Application on or after January 1, 2013.  This expansion would apply to:
(1)all parcels in RH-DTR, TB-DTR, SB-DTR, SLI, SLR, SSO, C-M, and UMU Districts;
(2)properties that are zoned MUG, MOU, or MUR and that are north of Division/Duboce/13th Streets; and
(3)all parcels zoned C-2 except for those on Blocks 4991 (Executive Park) and 7295 (Stonestown Galleria Mall).
This week the Board approved the Ordinance on First Reading.
§Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization of 1111 California (Masonic Center).You may remember that in 2010, the Board unanimously upheld the Commission’s authorization for a slight expansion of the Masonic Center’s use. After the Board approved the first CU for a slight, the neighborhood group filed lawsuit.  The court decision resulted in our Department needing to do additional CEQA work prior to the City reconsidering the expansion. While we're completing the CEQA review for the expansion, the Masonic Center needed a new CU to continue their existing use.  This January this Commission again approved a CU—this CU—just for the continuation of the use.   It is this authorization of continuance of the historic use that was appealed.  While CEQA and other concerns were raised, the primary issue raised by the appellants was the number of events that should be allowed.  Prior to the hearing, the project sponsor and appellants representing the Nob Hill Coalition reached an agreement to reduce the permitted events from the number authorized by the Commission (68 live/219 non-live events), to the average number of events held at the Center in recent years (54 live/176 non-live).  The appellants representing the Nob Hill Association did not concur with this agreement.At this Tuesday’s appeal, the Board reversed the Commission’s CU and re-authorized a new CU with an additional condition that limited the number of events to that agreed upon by most parties.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
On behalf of the Planning Department, there are a couple of items I would like to share with you from yesterday's Historic Preservation Commission hearing. They voted to disapprove the initiation of the Gold Dust Lounge as a City Landmark. The HPC was appreciative and overwhelmed by the community support surrounding the potential landmark designation. They unanimously agreed to send a letter to the Board of Supervisors recognizing that while the criteria they use does not compel them to support the initiation, it is clear that the Gold Dust Lounge deserves recognition as a local institution. The HPC also provided a review and comment in support of the proposed listing of 527 7thStreet, a light industrial design property. The property owners are seeking a listing of the building in order to take advantage of Section 8. The Commission might be familiar with the Planning Commission’s flexibility of permitted uses to support the economic viability of the City's historic resources. This property will likely come before you at a future hearing. Finally, they began their review of a Request for Appropriateness of the Veterans Building. It is in the landmark district, but because of a notice error, they continue this item to the June 6 hearing.
9.2012.0052I(R. Crawford: (415) 558-6358)
1 BEACH STREET- south side between Grant Avenue and Stockton Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 0018 -Notification by the Zoning Administrator of filing of an Institutional Master Plan for Alliant International University.   Pursuant to Planning Code Section 304.5, the Planning Commission must hold a public hearing upon receiving a completed Institutional Master Plan.This public hearing is for receipt of public testimony only; receipt of this Institutional Master Plan does not constitute acceptance or approval of any proposed project contained therein.
Preliminary Recommendation: No Action Required
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Following the opening of the public hearing, the President closed the public hearing thus accepting the Institutional Master Plan for Alliant International University with any further action.