All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be
        routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call
        vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items
        unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which
        event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a
        separate item at this or a future hearing
5.2011.0773C(A. Putra:  (415) 575-9079)
1344 OCEAN
        AVENUE- northeast corner of Ocean and Granada Avenues; Lot 016 in Assessor’s Block
        3198 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning
        Code Sections 303, and 737.83 to establish a wireless telecommunication services
        facility consisting of six roof-mounted panel antennas and associated equipment
        located within the garage of a three-story over garage level, nine family
        building with a Location Preference 2 (Preferred Location – Co-Location Site),
        as part of the Verizon Wireless telecommunications network within the Ocean
        Avenue Neighborhood Commercial Transit District and 45-X Height and Bulk
        District.
Preliminary
        Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Mark Loball - representative for Verizon, Rev. Roland Gordon,
        Jessie Watters, and Russ Benson
ACTION:           Approved with Conditions, including a condition from the Board
        of Supervisors (BOS) to require a third party assessment of coverage and
        capacity needs
AYES:             
        Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
ABSENT:          Miguel
MOTION:18515
6.2011.0951CV(B.
        BENDIX:  (415) 575-9114)
371-375 11thStreet- east side, between Folsom and Harrison Streets, Lots 021 and 023 in Assessor’s
        Block 3520 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to
        Planning Code Sections 181(f), 303, and 803.7 to expand the existing nighttime
        entertainment use (d.b.a. DNA Lounge). The proposed expansion will create
        interior connections between two adjacent buildings thereby increasing the size
        of the DNA Lounge to 11,985 square feet. The project does not include any
        increase to the existing building envelopes or floor area. The use is not
        identified as a formula retail use. The project is located within an SLR
        (Service/Light-Industrial/Residential Mixed Use) Zoning District, the Western
        SoMa Planning Area Special Use District, and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary
        Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Ilene Dick, representing Project Sponsor, Jason Anderson, Jackie
        Bryson, Jim Meko, and Dan Borlaki
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             
        Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
ABSENT:          Miguel
MOTION:18516
7.2011.0951CV(B. BENDIX:  (415) 575-9114)
371-375 11thStreet- east side, between Folsom and Harrison Streets, Lots 021 and 023 in Assessor’s
        Block 3520 -Request for Variancefrom Planning Code Section 152.1 to
        expand the existing nighttime entertainment use (d.b.a. DNA Lounge) and not
        provide one off-street loading space, when one is required. The project is
        located within an SLR (Service/Light-Industrial/Residential Mixed Use) Zoning
        District, the Western SoMa Planning Area Special Use District, and a 50-X Height
        and Bulk District.
SPEAKERS:     Same as those listed for item 6.
ACTION:           The Zoning Administrator closed the public hearing & stated
        his inclination to grant the variance.
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of
        Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all
        matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission. 
        Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes
        because they did not attend the meeting.
8.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of October 6, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Special Meeting of November 17, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of November 17, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of December 1, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Special Meeting of December 8, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of December 8, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Special Meeting of December 15, 2011
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of December 15, 2011
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             
        Antonini, Fong, Moore, and Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden and Miguel
9.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without
        discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of
        staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time,
        the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting
        and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next
        meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Congratulations to Christina Olague.  Even though we often voted different ways,
        Supervisor Olague was always open to discussion and open to compromise, and I
        think someone has said that politics is the art of the possible and she will do
        well because of her attitude in that regard.  Item two: most of you know the
        49ers are playing in an important playoff game against the Saints this Saturday,
        appropriately in San Francisco, at Candlestick Park, which is the site of more
        NFL playoff games than any other stadium in the United States, partly due to the
        great successes of the 49ers in the past. My third item has to do with personal
        experience talking about formula retail. I tried to find a battery, over the
        holidays we have had a land line that had gone out. It is one of those phones
        that is able to be removed from the land line and walked around with. Apparently
        maybe all that is wrong with it is the battery. Unfortunately, Radio Shack did
        not have it and neither did AT&T. I was told to go to Batteries Plus, which I
        think the only one is on a Bush Street near Van Ness Avenue. We have to look at
        some of these conditional uses as additional uses for formula of retail, we have
        to take into consideration issues where if the item is such a specialty item and
        really not realistic to expect your neighborhood hardware store or even another
        formula retail outlet like Radio Shack to have it, there might be a reason for
        it to be that way, and that is you have to have such a huge volume of outlets to
        be able to specialize in only such things as batteries. “We should always view
        our decisions and the prism of how realistic it is that local firms can always
        supply the items of particular institutions supplies. I just wanted to point
        that out. I hope to find a battery some time in the near future.
Commissioner Moore:
I have a list of congratulations. The first one goes to Supervisor Olague. I
        wish her the best of luck. I think it will be fantastic. The second
        congratulation goes to Mayor Lee for his swearing in as a new Mayor. The first
        one of the issue is the thought of establishing a trust fund for affordable
        housing. I read outline in the paper of what that is supposed to entail, and I
        am extremely excited for that being a step in the right direction, something I
        think this Commission will be interested in and help realize. The third
        congratulation goes to Director Rahaim.  He is mentioned in this great article.
        As we see the demise of San Francisco, he has jumped in to establish a new
        oversight office. I am not sure if I am using the proper names, to which one of
        them was named, one of which is Director Rahaim who brings planning expertise,
        including a lot more to anchor a discussion that will require a lot of
        attention, particularly many of the projects that will be worked on at the Board
        for a long time. I see that as a very powerful step in the right direction as we
        all move forward in the discussion of the demise of redevelopment. Not all
        cities are prepared as we are, and I wish everyone luck on this difficult
        journey. I have a comment to make on an ordinance establishing new guidelines
        for performance and other regulations regarding installation and placement of
        wireless communication. The City of Burlingame on Monday implemented a new
        ordinance. I have a copy of the ordinance to pass on.  They were compared with
        eight other cities on what they are doing. I would give AnMarie Rodgers the
        ordinance and encourage her to contact people in their Planning Department to
        see what has been looked at so that our own work can constructively support what
        others have researched. That is, I think, it for me today. I wanted to thank the
        Planning Department for including the Christmas pictures from the party. I
        thought it was very thoughtful. It brought a lot of smiles onto my face. The
        last thing I would like to share is that Piazza Market is closed. They moved the
        catering business to another location.
10        
        Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Happy New Year Everyone!
         It is good to be back. If you will bear with me, I might lose my voice halfway
        through. I am still struggling with a cold. I have several announcements today.
11.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of
        Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF
        SUPERVISORS:
Dec 2011:This report was to come at the end of last year’s meeting but this info has
        not yet been shared.  In summary, two informational hearings on Planning
        matters were heard by the Board & its committees: 8 Washington and CPMC. 
        There was no action on either and I can give you more information if you
        wish.
I did need to share the results of an appeal hearing concerning the
        Conditional Use authorization of a wireless telecommunications facility as
        the Board’s action included a request to relay this information to the
        Commission.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·Appeal of CU for wireless antennas at3901 Mission Street.This Commission had approved the CU with a 6-0 vote on 11/8. In this case, the
        appellants' questioned the “necessity and desirability” of the installation.
        Again, this project saw very little information presented by the appellant’s at
        the PC hearing, however, the appellants provided a great deal of new information
        to the Board; including a survey claiming that nearly 72% of the neighbors
        opposed the project and an independent assessment by an engineer questioning the
        “gaps” in coverage cited by AT&T.  What had been only 8 ½ minutes of public
        comment at the Commission hearing was over 45 minutes at the Board.  Like last
        another similar appeal the week earlier, Members of the Board were concerned
        about differences in the maps that AT&T presented to the Commission vs. similar
        coverage maps shown by AT&T’s marketing arm which shows good coverage in the
        area.  Supervisor Campos questioned the City’s ability to assess “necessity” of
        new antennas.  He stated that “necessity must be based upon an independent
        analysis” of AT&T’s coverage maps, instead of the unquestioned acceptance of
        these claimed gaps in service.  The Supervisor urged “disapproval” of the CU as
        the Board couldn’t verify the validity of the maps through the information AT&T
        had provided and said the burden is on the project sponsor to prove that
        additional antennas are needed.  Supervisors Wiener, Campos, and Cohen wanted a
        message relayed to this Commission that the Board is increasingly struggling
        with the determination that the antennas are necessary.  These members of the
        Board requested that the Commission and the Department to take note of the
        Board’s recent actions and that we make adjustments in our procedures.
        Specifically, the requested that Planning require an independent evaluation of
        capacity and coverage for future antennae installations, as a matter of regular
        practice.   When it came time to take action, Supervisor Campos wanted to move
        for a disapproval but was 1 vote short of the 8 votes needed (Chu, Farrell, Elsbernd, and Cohen, no votes) 
        Supervisor Wiener  then moved to reject the Commission’s CU but to approve a new
        CU with a the same condition he imposed last week.  This condition would require
        that Planning Staff pick an independent, state-licensed engineer to make an
        objective evaluation of AT&T’s cell coverage in this area.  Planning staff is to
        consult with both the appellants and the project sponsor on this selection and
        any potential consultant would have to sign a confidentiality agreement
        acceptable to AT&T.  If this evaluator finds a gap that would be improved by the
        new antennas the CU will be approved.  If there is no gap or a gap that is not
        improved by this antennae installation, the antennas will be disapproved.   
        AT&T will fund the costs charged by this independent evaluator.With that new
        condition, the Board voted unanimously 11-0 to add this to the Conditional Use
        authorization.  In response to the Board’s new condition, the Department has
        been in consultation with the appellants and project sponsor.  We will be making
        the final selection on the Larkin appeal by COB today.  In addition, the
        Department will be presenting the Commission with a draft policy proposal that
        would make the Board’s new condition regarding independent verification of
        coverage and capacity data a standard component of future applications.  While
        this new policy can’t be discussed in detail today as this has not been
        publically noticed, later on the calendar you will hear WTS cases and may
        determine if you wish to apply add the Board’s new condition to the other
        conditions included in our case report.
THIS WEEK:
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·1% for Art Requirement.The Planning
        Commission considered this Ordinance on 10/27.  This week at Committee Board
        President Chiu introduced the changes requested by this Commission.  The major
        modifications of note include the activation of large ground floor open spaces
        with artworks and expanding the requirement Citywide.  These changes were made
        after the Supervisor and Mayor’s Office conducted additional outreach as
        requested by this Commission.  Until the outreach meeting, the Ordinance would
        have only required on-site art for non-residential buildings with a groundfloor
        open space of >3000 sf.  The Department’s survey of potential pipeline projects
        showed this to be a very low number of projects.  Now, the on-site requirement
        will be expanded so that projects with an open space requirement of 1500-3000 sf
        will be required to spend a minimum of $500,000 on-site and projects with open
        spaces of 3000 sf or larger will be required to spend $750,000 on-site.Mayor’s Office staff spoke in support of this change.  Supervisor Chiu also
        amended the ordinance to apply to all projects but at a higher threshold outside
        of the C-3.  The existing threshold for the C-3 would not change from the
        existing minimum project size of 25,000 sq ft.  Outside of the C-3 the
        requirement would not be triggered unless a new building or addition were
        greater than 75,000 sf.  Mayor’s Office staff said that the Mayor had not yet
        had time to consider this amendment.  Since this amendment will expand a
        potential fee, the item will not be heard for two weeks while the Clerk of the
        Board performs the required notice.
FULL BOARD HEARING:
·M&O CAC Members.Supervisor Elsbernd divided the motion to nominate new members to the Market &
        Octavia CAC.  He asked that the Board vote on all nominations but for Peter
        Cohen.  He asked that Cohen's nomination be sent back to committee for further
        discussion.  Specifically, Supervisor Elsbernd stated that at the Committee
        hearing Mr. Cohen stated that he had been nominated for the low-income seat but
        that he was not low-income.  The Board voted unanimously to nominate the
        following parties to the M&O CAC: Krute Singa, Michael Simmons, Kenneth Wingard,
        Dennis Richards, and Jason Henderson to terms ending December 16, 2012.  On the
        motion to send Mr. Cohen's nomination back to committee, this motion passed by a
        6-5 vote.  Voting against were Supervisors Avalos, Campos, Kim, Mar, and
        Olague.  The Rules Committee will rehear this nomination in the near-term.
·SharpPark Management Plan.The Board also considered overturning a veto.  Over recess the Mayor had vetoed
        the Sharp Park Management Plan Ordinance sponsored by Supervisor Avalos.  This
        week the Board voted on whether they should override his veto.  To override, a
        super majority of 8 votes are needed.  The override failed with only six votes:
        Avalos, Campos, Chiu, Kim, Mar and newly appointed Olague.
·CEQA Appeal.The Board heard an appeal to the Commission's certification of the Museum of
        Modern Art Expansion/Fire Station Relocation and Housing Project Environmental
        Impact Report. The Appellant, the W Hotel, alleged 3 primary arguments:
1.that the EIR  and the project analyzed in the EIR did not match the schematic
        design submitted to the Department
2.that the expansion's visual impacts were not appropriately analyzed,
        particularly those related to effects on private views to the W hotel; and
3.that loading, access and circulation effects during construction and the
        project condition were insufficiently evaluated in the EIR.
Staff responded to these claims and on a unanimous vote, the Board upheld the
        commission's certification and denied the appeal. The Board subsequently voted
        unanimously to adopt the rezoning ordinances for the 676 Howard Street and 935
        Folsom Street parcels. The project will be back before this commission for an
        approval hearing on February 2.
INTRODUCTIONS:
·120021 Resolution: Transfer of Assets, Obligations, and Functions to the City as
        Successor Agency for the Redevelopment Agency Upon its Dissolution as Required
        by State Law.
§1) approving the City and County of San Francisco (the City) as successor agency
        to the SF Redevelopment Agency (the Agency) AND
§approving retention of the  Agency's affordable housing assets and functions
        upon the Agency's dissolution, including all funds in the Agency's Low and
        Moderate Income Housing Fund, and
§authorizing the Mayor's Office of Housing to manage these affordable housing
        assets and to exercise the housing functions that the Agency previously
        performed;
§acknowledging that upon the Agency's dissolution the City as successor agency
        shall accept the transfer of all of the Agency's non-affordable housing assets,
        which shall be placed under the jurisdiction of the Director of the Department
        of Administrative Services unless otherwise provided for in the Charter, and
        that the Director shall have the authority to manage such assets and to exercise
        the functions that the Agency previously performed for such assets;
§providing for the required payment and enforceable obligations, the transfer and
        establishment of funds and accounts, and for the administration of funds and
        other assets, all associated with the City's exercise of its responsibilities as
        successor agency to the Agency under state law;
§authorizing the new Oversight Board, which state law requires the City as
        successor agency to create, to oversee certain fiscal management of former
        Agency assets other than affordable housing assets, to exercise land use,
        development, and design approval authority under the enforceable obligations for
        the
·Mission BayRedevelopment Project
        Area,
·Hunters Point Shipyard Project Area, and
·Zone 1 of the Bayview Hunters Point Redevelopment Project Area, and part of the
        Transbay Redevelopment Project Area, in place of the former Agency Commission,
        and
§authorizing the Oversight Board to approve certain changes to such obligations,
        related documents and certain new agreements to implement those enforceable
        agreements, including review and approval for issuing bonds under such
        agreements, and authorizing the Director of the Department of Administrative
        Services to provide coordinated staff support to the Oversight Board, in the
        place of staff of the former Agency, in the exercise of these functions;
§5) rescinding the designation of the Treasure Island Development Authority as a
        Redevelopment Agency.
Sponsors: Mayor,Malia Cohen,Jane Kim,Christina Olague
·120023 Appointments, Redevelopment Successor Agency Oversight Board - Nadia
        Sesay, Olsen Lee, John Rahaim, and Bob MuscatMotion confirming the Mayor's appointments of Nadia Sesay, Olsen Lee, John
        Rahaim, and Bob Muscat to the Redevelopment Successor Agency Oversight Board.
LAST YEAR’S INFORMATIONAL HEARING—ONLY
        DISCUSSED IF REQUESTED
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·8 Washington Informational Hearing. At the request of Board President Chiu, the
        Committee held an informational hearing regarding the 8 Washington Street
        project, with no formal action taken. After a brief presentation of the project
        by Port staff, the Committee heard comments from the public. Commissioners, you
        have taken one action on this project to date.. Specifically, on December 8 you
        initiated an amendment to the General Plan that would increase the allowable
        height in two areas at the southwestern portion of the project site.
        Certification of the EIR and entitlement actions for this project are scheduled
        for your January 19 hearing, and final action on the General Plan Amendment and
        Rezoning for the project will be calendared for subsequent consideration by the
        Land Use Committee and the Board of Supervisors.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE:
·Hearing on the Status of CPMC’s Development Agreement.  This week the Board
        sitting as a Committee of the Whole heard a request from Supervisor Mar on the
        status of CPMC’s Development Agreement. The Office of Economic and Workforce
        Development, along with staff from DPH, Planning, MOH, SFMTA, and the City
        Attorney’s office presented an overview of the DA, noting that the DA is not
        complete and there are still negotiations underway. The primary topics discussed
        at last night’s hearing are the framework for the DA, and deal with CPMC’s
        commitment to: healthcare for the poor and undeserved, a viable St. Luke’s
        Hospital, affordable housing, local hire and workforce development, and to
        transit and street improvements in the vicinity of the new project sites.The hearing was concluded without action.
·111337Ordinance amending the San Francisco Code by amending Section 179.1(b) to: 1)
        extend by 90 days the period of time in which existing uses in the Eastern
        Neighborhoods area that have operated without permits may file an application
        for determination of eligibility for legitimization; and 2) making environmental
        findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with
        the General Plan and the Priority Policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.Cohen
Not sure if you report these.  It appears they were sent to the Board by the
        Commission/Department.
·111307Ordinance amending the San Francisco General Plan by adding the Glen Park Area
        Plan; and making findings, including environmental findings and findings of
        consistency with the General Plan and the Priority Policies of Planning Code
        Section 101.1.Planning Department
·111306Ordinance amending Zoning Map Sheets ZN11 and HT11 of the City and County of San
        Francisco Zoning Map to create a new zoning district and amending the height and
        bulk districts within the Glen Park Area Plan, as proposed in the Glen Park
        Community Plan; making environmental findings and findings of consistency with
        the General Plan and the Priority Policies of Planning Code Section 101.1Planning Department
·111305Ordinance amending the San Francisco Planning Code by adding and amending
        various sections to implement the Glen Park Area Plan, bounded generally by
        Chenery Street to the north; Roanoke Street to the east; San Jose Avenue and
        Bosworth Street to the south; and Elk Street to the west; creating a new Section
        738.1 establishing zoning controls for the Glen Park Neighborhood Commercial
        Transit (NCT) district; and making findings, including environmental findings
        and findings of consistency with General Plan and with the Priority Policies of
        Planning Code Section 101.1.Planning Department
Introduced on 1/10/12
·File #:  111374Student HousingOrdinance amending the San Francisco
        Planning Code by: 1) adding a new Section 102.36 to create a definition of
        Student Housing; 2) amending Section 135(d)(2) to adjust the minimum open space
        requirements for dwelling units that do not exceed 350 square feet, plus a
        bathroom; 3) amending Section 207(b)(3) to exempt Student Housing from the unit
        mix requirement in RTO, NCT, DTR, and Eastern Neighborhoods Mixed Used
        Districts; 4) amending Section 307 to permit the conversion of Student Housing
        into residential uses, when certain conditions are met; 5) amending Section 312
        to require notice for a change of use to Group Housing; 6) amending Section 317
        to prohibit the conversion of residential units into Student Housing; and 7)
        amending Section 401 to make conforming amendments and amend the definition of
        Qualified Student Housing; and making findings, including environmental findings
        and findings of consistency with the priority policies of Planning Code Section
        101.1 and the General Plan.Planning Department
·Motion appointing Peter Cohen, term ending December 16, 2012, to the Market and
        Octavia Community Advisory Committee.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
One item of interest was a
        jurisdiction request. The Commission heard this in 2010. The building permit was
        issued in 2011. Construction work commenced after that. An adjacent neighbor
        filed the jurisdiction request in December, because they had concerns about the
        scope of the work. It is our understanding that the work being performed is per
        plan, as was in the plans. Also, the request for had filed a letter of support
        when the item was before you. It seems that as the project was being constructed
        it was not as they had visualized from seeing the plan. They had concerns and
        wanted the scope of the project reduced. That shows the importance of explaining
        clearly what the scope of the project is, not everyone can understand the plans.
        Other items related to the Board of Appeals -- there will be some changes in the
        composition of the Board in December. Former President Tanya Peterson resigned.
        She is the Executive Director of the San Francisco Zoo. She has been doing an
        excellent job there and will be focusing full time on that position, an
        important position. Last night, current President Goh resigned from the Board of
        Appeals. She will be sitting for next week's hearing, but has announced she is
        moving to Beijing to take a new position which sounds exciting. We wish her the
        best, as well as Commissioner Peterson. During the years I have been observing
        them on the Board, I am impressed by their integrity and attention to detail. I
        wish them both the best in their endeavors. In terms of replacement
        Commissioners, Ms. Peterson was appointed by the Mayor, who has nominated Rich
        Hillis from the Office of Work Force Development. He left that office last year
        and is now the Executive Director of Mason Center. He has been nominated and
        will be undergoing a review and approval process for that. President Goh was a
        Board appointee and we have no word of a replacement for her.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The
        Commission did not meet this week