All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be
        routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call
        vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items
        unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which
        event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a
        separate item at this or a future hearing
Item 1 was
        pulled off Consent and followed item 12
1.2010.1038C(R. Crawford:
        (415) 558-6358)
1735 POLK
        STREET (aka 1729-1739 POLK STREET)- west side between Washington and Clay Streets; Lot 002 in Assessor’s Block
        0619 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning
        Code Sections 303, 121.2, 723.21 (Non-Residential Use Size exceeding 2,499
        square feet) and 723.42 (Full-Service Restaurant), to develop a 2,900 square
        foot Full Service Restaurant (d.b.a.The Living Room) with beer and wine
        service.  The project would convert vacant space behind the existing Quickly
        Restaurant to a full service restaurant use within the Polk Street Neighborhood
        Commercial District and 65-A Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary
        Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Linda Chapman
ACTION:           Approved as proposed
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18533
2.2011.1233C(K. GUY: (415)
        558-6163)
2255 POLK STREET- west side between Green and Vallejo Streets, Lot 001 of Assessor’s Block 0550
        -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationto establish a full-service
        restaurant (d.b.a. to be determined) within an existing commercial tenant space
        located at 2255 Polk Street, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 723.42,
        within the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District and the 65-A Height and
        Bulk District. Tenant improvements are proposed for the tenant space, however
        the size of the space will not change.
Preliminary
        Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved as proposed
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18528
3.2011.0679Q(A. HOLLISTER:  (415) 575-9078)
1120-1130
        KEARNY STREET-east side of Kearny Street between Vallejo Street and Broadway, Lot 022
        in Assessor’s Block 0144 –Request for Condominium Conversion Subdivisionto convert all six dwelling units in a residential building into a condominium
        form of ownership within the RM-2 (Residential, Mixed, Moderate Density) Zoning
        District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary
        Recommendation:  Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved as proposed
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18529
4.2011.0680Q(A. HOLLISTER:  (415) 575-9078)
1145 GREEN
        STREET-south side of Kearny Street between Hyde and Leavenworth Streets, Lot
        019A in Assessor’s Block 0125 –Request for Condominium Conversion
        Subdivisionto convert all six dwelling units in a residential building into
        a condominium form of ownership within the RH-3 (Residential, House,
        Three-Family) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary
        Recommendation:  Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved as proposed
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18530
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of
        Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all
        matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission. 
        Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes
        because they did not attend the meeting.
5.        
        Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of January 12, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Closed Session Meeting of January 19, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of January 19, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya
6.        
        Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements. 
        Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or
        inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas. 
        At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a
        Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda
        of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I attended a Land Use and
        Development Committee meeting yesterday morning.  There was a very interesting
        summary of 2012 land use and real estate case events that have a bearing on
        Planning Commission matters; a review of CEQA in 2011; an update on the
        dissolution of the Redevelopment Agencies; and some different kind of things
        that happened across the State of California.  My heart went out to our
        successor agency and members, because when you hear it in more detail by experts
        that describe the effect in different communities, it is hair rising.  I think
        it would not only be difficult for Director Rahaim, but I think it will also
        ripple down into the things that we will be looking at and it will be equally
        difficult. I hope we will get updates and help from anyone who can prepare us to
        take on this new task. There were also a couple of interesting reports on
        wetlands and the Endangered Species Act.  I will be happy to lend the documents
        that came out of that meeting.  They will be worthwhile taking a glance at.
Commissioner Antonini:
Earlier this week I was
        part of a presentation with a couple of other commissioners from the project
        sponsors of 201 Folsom Street, which was approved in an approval process in
        2003. This is the completion of the project, which I would be happy to report
        on. It seems to be moving forward.  We have the design presentation by the
        Commission that was required before they went forward. But what was interesting
        about this presentation, and this was a subject that is frequently brought up,
        everyone wants to know the context of the people who live in these new projects
        that have just been completed.  The project sponsor volunteered that they have
        about 1000 residents in the two towers. He said the record shows 75% are
        full-time residents. The other 25% are split equally with about 12.5% renters
        and 12.5% low-income. We hear a lot of representation, and this is only one
        project, but it may be representative of many of the newer projects that have
        been built, particularly in the South of Market. It would appear that a very
        high percentage of people do make this their full-time residence. Also, the
        units are entirely sold, as are many of these. We often hear representations
        that there are a full flood of unsold condominiums, which is not the case in
        this area. I thought that was very interesting, and hopefully we can have later
        presentations from other projects as we go forward to tell us about the
        characteristics of the people who live there in terms of whether they are
        full-time residents, whether they have cars or not, how many children?, etc. One
        other thing that came out of this is that there will be a lot of larger units.
        In another words, two and three bedroom units as opposed to the earlier
        iteration, which had more studios and one bedroom units.  They found there are
        so many families that this has become a popular configuration. That is very
        encouraging.
Commissioner Borden:
We talked about having a
        hearing this month on the African-American out migration.I want to make sure we get that on the calendar. We're already in February and
        the time will pass very quickly. Maybe we can look at the last Thursday of the
        month. The second thing is redistricting. I know it is not our jurisdiction, but
        it would be interesting to have someone talk about the process. I recognize in a
        lot of ways from our standpoint it does not matter in the same sort of way, but
        it is a big issue that will affect land use and decisions in other ways. Maybe
        someone from the Task Force could come talk about the process and how things can
        be engaged in, and what implications, if any, it has for us.
Commissioner Miguel:
I have been meeting with
        people regarding the project that will probably come to us in a few months and
        have had the pleasure of attending a forum on Salesforce at Mission Bay.
        Obviously very interesting questions came up. It was a very interesting
        presentation and we will see it here shortly.
7.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Good afternoon,
        commissioners. A couple of things I want to briefly tell you about: there is not
        a whole lot to report on regarding activities this past week on the
        Redevelopment Agency elimination, except that the Redevelopment Agency no longer
        exists as of yesterday. We knew that was coming. The Board of Supervisors did
        approve legislation that the Mayor put forward as well to create the successor
        agency. As you recall the housing assets will go to the Mayor's Office of
        Housing and all other assets will go to the City Administrator's Office. The
        Controller's Office is setting up a trust fund to accept the fund from those
        areas. Those funds will be used as they are obligated to be used under existing
        contracts. The remaining funds will be distributed as they would be to the
        normal taxing entities. San Francisco is both a County and a City and since we
        are one government, we are in somewhat better shape than some others. Beyond
        that, the logistics of how we're going to operate as an oversight board and
        successor agency are still to be determined. You probably know the staff of the
        agency will continue for at least two months. It buys them some breathing room
        and the city some breathing room to help work this out to determine what staff
        the board will need. It is a huge issue that is consuming a lot of time from a
        lot of people to figure that out. I cannot even tell you at this point when the
        first meeting will be, because the schedule has not been set yet. But as soon as
        we know, I will try to get that information to you.  The second issue is that
        the Mayor has kicked off a meeting of a Housing Trust Fund Committee today an
        hour and a half ago. This is a large group that was asked to convene from all
        members of the housing community from activist to developers to finance folks to
        look at the issue of how to develop alternative funding mechanisms for
        affordable housing, particularly in light of the lost tax increment from
        redevelopment, which was the City's largest single source of affordable housing.
        The goal the Mayor has given us is to look at a range of financing mechanisms.
        He made it clear that everything was on the table, but if we were to recommend
        that some of these mechanisms might require a ballot measure, he has that it be
        done in a timely manner so that we get something on the November ballot. That
        work will have to proceed very quickly in order to make the November ballot. 
        Back to the redevelopment for one second, because of the unknowns, we also do
        not know what the impact on the Department's budget might be. What you will see
        today in the budget does not reflect yet anything related to redevelopment, so
        if and when that does happen, we will have to come back to you with additional
        information, and perhaps a  supplementary budget request at that time, but we
        just do not know yet. We are hoping we will know something in the next few
        months.
8.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of
        Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·Chinatown Transit Station Special Use District.The Ordinances would allow the demolition of the existing two-story mixed-use
        building without the prior review and approval of a replacement building. The
        building contains 18 residential dwelling-units located above 8 ground floor
        businesses.  This Commission approved the Ordinances on Jan 26.This week
        the legislative sponsor stated that there were some unanswered questions about
        the replacement housing.  The item was continued to 2/13.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·Glen Park Community Plan Ordinances
        Amending the General Plan, Planning Code & Zoning Map.The culminating approvals of a 10 year community planning effort were heard by
        the LU committee this week.  The Commission considered these Ordinances and
        recommended approval on November 10, 2012.  At that time, the Commission
        approved the documents as drafted.  This week Supervisor Wiener officially
        sponsored the legislation and recommended approval to the Committee.  Department
        staff provided an overview of the Plan and the proposed Ordinances. The
        Supervisors’ comments included a strong interest in seeing transportation
        projects implementation by the SFMTA.  Public comment was provided in support of
        the Plan by a local neighborhood group, the Glen Park Association.The full
        Board approved the Ordinances on first reading.
·Appeal of CU Authorization for
        Wireless Antennas at 601 14thAve.This WTS facility
        was proposed for the Jewish Bureau of Education.This Commission approved
        the CU on Dec 6th.  The appellant was the First Slavic Baptist Church
        of San Francisco.  The appellants had concerns about radiofrequency radiation,
        the siting on an educational facility, and the lack of independent analysis of
        “capacity & coverage”.  Staff explained that this case, the CU was approved
        prior to the Commission’s most recent revision of the Siting Guidelines, which
        now require this independent analysis as part of the submittal documents.  While
        we had asked AT&T to voluntarily pursue such analysis, they were unable to do so
        prior to the hearing.  The Department explained that this location, as a
        preference one location, is exactly where the City has requested that cell
        providers locate their antennas.  Finally, we were joined at the hearing by DPH
        staff. Together, we described the site would be safe according to science
        developed over 3 decades of study and more than 25,000 studies. Two supervisors
        (Olague and Mar) requested that the Siting process be updated.With a 9-1
        vote, the CU was upheld.  Supervisor Mar cast the dissenting vote and in the
        meeting minutes he requested that DPH provide pre-installation and
        post-installation readings of cumulative RF at the site to better inform the
        public about the levels of RF in the area.
INTRODUCTIONS:
·111163Resolution establishing a Balboa Park Station Area Plan Community Advisory
        Committee to provide input and community oversight relating to area
        transportation and other public improvements.Avalos
·120125 Ordinance:amending the San Francisco Planning Code Section 205.4 to allow mobile food
        facilities at certain types of institutions in RH, RM, RED, and RTO Districts
        subject to specified conditions.Wiener
·120133 Hearing.Hearing for city agencies and community stakeholders to make a presentation on
        the action steps identified to pursue transit-oriented development at the upper
        yard site for Balboa Park.Avalos.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
Board of Appeals they did not meet last night, but the Board President has
        nominatedMr. Zaoto.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
There are really only two items I would like to report. The HPC considered the
        Transit Center District Survey update, and they adopted the staff
        recommendation. They also heard Article 10 and 11. They continued discussing
        their concerns about Article 10 and they had a chance to discuss Article 11. We
        will have a full report on their actions when the same item comes before you
        later today. The Commission might be interested in another project that the HPC
        approved yesterday. They approved the restoration and reuse of a South of Market
        church as an office building. You will see that as well. They will insert a
        mezzanine floor and converted it to offices. This is a very interesting project
        that you will be seeing in a few weeks I think.