All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
5.2012.1142C(R. CRAWFORD: (415) 558-6358)
2815 DIAMOND STREET- easterly side between Chenery and Bosworth Streets, Lot 074 in Assessor’s Block 6745 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Section 738.26, Walk-up Facility to allow a new ATM for Wells Fargo Bank to replace the existing ATM in front of Canyon Market within the Glen Park Neighborhood Commercial Transit District, and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  The new ATM will not be setback three feet from the property line.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:           18748
6.2012.1327T(A. STARR: (415) 558-6382)
AMENDMENTS TO THE PLANNING CODE, MODIFYING SECTION 726.52 TO PERMIT A PERSONAL SERVICE USE ON THE THIRD STORY AND ABOVE WITH A CONDITIONAL USE AUTHORIZATION [BOARD FILE NO. 12-0880]-Ordinance introduced by Supervisor Campos amending the San Francisco Planning Code, Section 726.52, of the Zoning Control Table, for the Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District to: 1) permit a personal service use on the third story and above with a Conditional Use Authorization; and 2) making environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with General Plan and the Priority Policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
SPEAKERS:     Henry Karnilowicz
ACTION:            Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:   18749
7.2012.0543T(A. RODGERS (415) 558-6395)
MUNICIPAL CODE MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS, FEE CHANGES, CLARIFICATIONS AND CORRECTIONS ORDINANCE-The Commission will consider a Commission-initiated Ordinance that would amend the San Francisco Planning Code and Administrative Code to (1) correct errors, make language revisions and updates; (2) revise graphics to be consistent with text; (3) amend fees to be charged for certain kinds of applications and appeals; (4) clarify the meaning of certain Planning Code sections; and (5) adopt findings, including findings under the California Environmental Quality Act and Planning Code Section 302, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Modifications
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Approved with Modifications
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:   18750
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
8.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of November 1, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of November 8, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
9.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Three things briefly, in regards to the Subcommittee for the secretary search, we have heard from the Department of Human Resources in regards to the classification, and we are scheduling a meeting of the Subcommittee in the near future to try to go over this item and see if we're going to be able to move forward at this time.
Commissioner Borden:
I'm sorry. That is out of order. We're filing an appeal. Do you have an update on that?
Commissioner Antonini:
I don't have an update -- not on the appeal. I am reporting that I am in receipt of something that came from them, I am not speaking about what our actions are going to be, just reporting on what I've received. So, we will deal with that -- in Subcommittee we'll discuss the other items, but I just wanted to make the public aware that we are in process of working on this, because this is not a calendared item, of course. Number two, a couple of articles in yesterday's Chronicle dealing with land use regarding the proposed arena on Piers 30 and 32, written by John King, the Architectural Editor. I thought it was a well written article, but I can assure at least from my point of view Mr. King expresses some concerns about the environmental review and its speed. I can say that expedient and complete and thorough are not mutually exclusive, and you can do something and certainly I would expect the same analysis to be every bit as thorough. This would be the case with any EIR, but that does not preclude it from moving in an expedient manner if it can be done. The other very interesting article by John Wildermuth, very excellent journal on the housing wars, Key to City's Diversity, that's the title of it. He does talk a little bit on the years of protest. It's well written, but a little self-laudatory in that we have a lot of problems, still a City which once had a huge middle class and had lots of families with children and had some of the highest sale prices of anyplace. We have to differentiate. He mentioned we have done a lot of good things, stopping freeways from chopping up the city, stopping another Western Addition destruction as happened in the '60s, but there also is a price that sometimes -- some of these things have perhaps been carried to extremes and they have added into higher prices and more process, and some of the woes we have today. So, there's always a happy medium. But I thought it was an interesting article and I would urge you to take a look at it if you haven't already.Commissioner Moore:
We had an item on our consent calendar which raises an issue which I could not discuss in the context of consent, but which raises for me an issue I would like the Department to focus on. I am talking about the 2815 Diamond Street, an ATM. I personally believe that ATMs are starting to become more billboards and oversized signs, advertising for the bank , rather than saying there is a convenience machine with a logo which identifies what you're supposed to do. This has been going on now for quite a few months, actually for way over a year. I raised that question months before when I saw the significant changes on the California/Montgomery Streets side for the Bank of America, where two or three or four ATMs look like a huge billboards rather than what they're supposed to be. I question that and I would like the Department to find a small slot to investigate as to whether or not we need to amend or what these particular ATM’s are, can or should be. It speaks to alteration and architecture and it speaks to advertising, which I think we normally look at under different rules, that's problem number one. On the positive side, I just came back from Venice, Italy where I had the good fortune to attend the 13th Architecture Biennale, Common Ground, which is an international event which occurs every two years and obviously one of the most spectacular cities in the world. What I want to talk about is not the travel experience, but what the United States did in response to the general heading of the titled themeCommon Ground. In the past the exhibits deal with architecture and focuses on the different countries. Obviously the U.S. has provided great contributions and high-rise buildings and that was for many years a reoccurring theme by which we really showed the promise of this country in developing high-rise buildings and pushing the design and the structural solutions pretty much to the extreme of world architecture. This time, though, and I am extremely happy about that we really participated in the discussion about common ground, and skipping fast forward to the U.S. Pavilion, we chose the response to being spontaneous interventions which focused on citizen and individual-driven innovations and improving the urban environment.  San Francisco was featured very prominently, with urban parklets and urban gardens. Many of the projects were identified by name and our own, our very own David Winslow was featured when he was participating as a private architect with Linden Alley. This is just one of many, it was beautifully put together, the design by a Sausalito firm and I was really proud. I hope that somewhere on the web all of you will take a moment to see how good we looked.
Commissioner Sugaya:
Another piece from the Chronicle, it's actually the Sunday datebook and it's in their way back column. This goes back to 1987, November 20th. I'll just read it. It is pertinent to the planning process. It says "November 20th, CharlotteMeyers,Wailliardhas lost the fight to prevent her neighbor from blocking her view of Golden Gate Bridge. San Francisco Board of Appeals by a 5 to 0 vote reversed a Planning Commission vote against the fourth floor rooftop addition by David and Andrea Rossen.  Robert Feldman, Director of the Board said, there's no way to build anything in San Francisco without blocking views, and the Board reiterated last night its often stated position that neither California courts nor the statutes protect views.
10.        Director’s Announcements
Jeff Joslin,
No announcements that I'm aware of today that I've received from the Director, who is currently out of town representing the Department elsewhere. Sorry, I'm Jeff, Joslin, Director of Current Planning, there is a Director's Report in your package that identifies it. A couple of matters. One, milestone achievements, that being recognition of staff that have been here for a long, dedicated career, at least for five years. David Alumgaugh 15 years, Lulu Hwang remarkable 30 years. There is also a description of two grants that the Department has also recently received.
11.        Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
No meeting
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No meeting
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:HPC took up the CEQA Legislation. But beyond that, there was nothing of interest for the Planning Department. They continued that item for further discussion.