All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2012.1266Q(M. SMITH: (415) 558-6322)
3559 – 3561 17thSTREET/ 28 DOLORES TERRACE-south side of 17thStreet between Dolores and Guerrero Streets; Lot 069 in Assessor’s Block 3578-Request for Condominium Conversionto convert five dwellings located within two separate buildings on the same lot into residential condominiums within a RM-1 (Residential, Mixed, Low-Density) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:           18740
3.2012.1256Q(M. SMITH: (415) 558-6322)
343 FREDERICK STREET- south sidebetween Clayton and Cole Streets, Lot 045 in Assessor's Block 1268 -Request for Condominium Conversionto convert a three-story, five-unit residential building into residential condominiums within a RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:           18741
4.2012.0926C(J. LOOK: (415) 575-6812)
1030 TARAVAL STREET-north side between 20thand 21stAve; Lot 018 in Assessor’s Block 2349 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 178, 303 and 781.1, to convert a vacant storefront into a Limited-Restaurant (d.b.a. Smile House). The restaurant is proposed in the Taraval Street RUSD (Restaurant and Fast-Food Sub-District) which is located in the NC-2 (Small-Scale Neighborhood Commercial District) with a 65-A Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:           18742
5.2012.0764C(E. WATTY: (415) 558-6620)
2001 POLK STREET-west side at the northwest corner of Pacific Avenue; Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 0574 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 145.2, 303(c), 723.26 and 790.140 to allow the addition of a walk-up facility (a take-out food window) along the Pacific Avenue frontage of the existing “Limited Restaurant and Liquor Store” (d.b.a Cheese Plus) within the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District and 65-A Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of October 25, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:           18743
6.2010.0627C(B. FU: (415) 558-6613)
2895 SAN BRUNO AVENUE- northeast corner of the intersection of San Bruno Ave. and Woolsey Street, Lot 037 in Assessor’s Block 5457 -Request for Conditional Use  Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 228.3 and 711.11 to allow the demolition of an existing service station and the construction of a new development consisting approximately 14,500-square-foot, 40-foot tall, five four-story residential/mixed use buildings containing a total of ten dwelling units, ten off-street parking spaces, ground-floor retail spaces, and second floor business or professional service uses in the Small-Scale Neighborhood Commercial (NC-2) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.  The project also requires a parking reduction request per Planning Code Sections 161(j) and 307(i).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Without hearing, continued to 12/6/12
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore
NAYES:                        Sugaya
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
7.         Commission Comments/Questions
Commissioner Borden:
I spoke about this with Ms. Rodgers in regard to the CEQA Legislation, in terms of the legislation we have with the awnings, that Supervisor Chiu has put forth, I thought it was great, in policy, things are changing the Planning Code and things like CEQA, that is going to affect this Commission. If we could have informational hearings early on in the introduction process, that would be non-action hearings, where we could understand the issues, they would be non-action hearings, because I feel a lot of times, for legislation we get packets and we do not understand, sometimes, until we have the hearing, what the legislation is saying,  so I think it would be really useful if we get a hearing early, and have a second hearing closer to end of the window where we could vote on the legislation, because I think we can figure out in between, if we need to have additional community workshops.  A lot of people feel that the Planning Commission should be the one to change legislation in regard to the Planning Code, and CEQA, that follows into that area.
I thought about the housing efficiency units. One of the things I thought might be useful as we are talking about looking at housing, building market rate versus affordable.  It would be interesting to have an actual snapshot of a cost per sq. ft. in a particular neighborhood. I do not think in the abstract.  Just knowing you are building a market rate project, tells you anything who can afford to live in that project.  I think having a snapshot actually show what the medium home price was in that particular neighborhood, smaller real estate tracks around that project, and then the anticipated cost per sq. ft. for that project and then you can better assess the market. We had a conversation about whether the market fulfills any level of middle income housing, it would be good to know that.  I think just having a general report about units, does not get to the heart of what we are trying to solve.  So, a better way, kind of incorporating looking at price per sq. ft. in a given neighborhood and comparing that to projects coming online, to the extent that we can, it would be more useful information.
Commissioner Antonini:
I would agree a 100% with Commissioner Borden’s request, because categorizing things as market rate or affordable, we had an instance a couple years ago where many of the market rate units for sale, were being sold for less than would have been the inclusionary amount that would have been charged under the inclusionary ordinance.  It is important to see, real case situations, and understand what we are really talking about in terms of the case.
A couple of other items, in terms of the Commission Secretary Search, I am still waiting for word from DHR, in regard to the classification issue, and I am hopeful that I would hear something on that issue within the next few days and follow up with that to see where we are.
Commissioner Moore:
The former home of Local 3879 International Longshoreman Association has bought the building to accommodate the Commonwealth Club in that facility, it its great idea. Commonwealth used to be on Market and Second, and now they will be moving to this location, which I think is an appropriate way of bringing large well-known institutional uses onto the waterfront.
8.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
There had been some requests, to talk about the schedule for the proposed Arena project on Piers 30 and 32. Just want to report some dates. After discussion with President Fong and Vice-President Wu we agree that we will have an informational hearing in January, when we would have some better answers to some questions at that point. We would schedule that on your calendar. As you know the Board is currently considering the fiscal feasibility for the project.  That allows us to start working on the EIR.  We are anticipating that the draft EIR will be published in May.  Your hearing on the draft EIR would probably be in June and the schedule calls for the completion of the EIR if you consider the certification by the end of next year.  We are about a year away from completing that project.
Secondly, I just want to let you know that I will be out the office for two weeks and Bill Wycko will be in charge for the Department in my absence.
9.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE: No Hearing
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
INTRODUCTIONS:
This week:
BOARD OF APPEALS
The Board heard two items that may be of interest to the Planning Commission.
The first was an appeal of a Zoning Administrator Letter of Determination for 1101-1101 Dolores Street that found the subject lot was a legal, non-conforming lot for the purposes of the Planning Code.  This Letter of Determination was upheld by the Board of Appeals.
The second was an appeal of a Zoning Administrator Letter of Determination for 498 Hoffman Avenue that found the subject building legally contained two dwelling units based upon past building permits and a notice of special restriction.  This Letter of Determination was upheld by the Board of Appeals.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:No report
10.(C. TEAGUE: (415) 575-9081)
340 FREMONT STREET-Informational itemto present the current design pursuant to the original approval Motion No. 17267 - The project includes one residential tower of 400 feet, up to 348 dwelling units, and up to 269 off-street parking spaces, in a RH-DTR (Rincon Hill Downtown Residential) and a 400-R Height and Bulk District.
SPEAKERS: Ezra Mercy, Glen Reskalvo
ACTION: Informational – No action required