All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2012.0501C(A. HOLLISTER:  (415) 575-9078)
222 COLUMBUS AVENUE-intersection of Columbus Avenue, Pacific Avenue and Kearny Street, Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 0162 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 714.44 and 303 to establish a small, self-service restaurant (D.B.A. Reveille Coffee) within the Broadway Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District and a 65-A-1 Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden, Miguel, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Moore
MOTION:18624
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
3.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of February 23, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of March 8, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of March 15, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Special & Regular Meetings of March 22, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Special & Regular Meetings of April 5, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of April 12, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of April 19, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Special & Regular Meetings of April 26, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of May 3, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved with corrections to 4/12/12 and 5/3/12
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden, Miguel, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Moore
4.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I want to thank Commissioner Wu for requesting that we get zoning maps for her first meeting.It has been very helpful and I have enough wall space in my office to actually put it up.I have talked to Secretary Avery and she has talked to Director Rahaim aboutus having a hearing in the future where we could have a discussion about the zoning categories for the benefit of the commissioners and for the public. I think there are questions that would come up and it would make it easier for people to understand what is going on when we are discussing the differences of what is an NCD and what is an NCT; and there are also a lot of special use districts. I think it would be helpful during one of our sessions to go over that. I would suggest calendaring it and I would like to see if we have agreement from the other commissioners along those lines. I do not need an answer right now. The other two things I want to suggest are a couple of extremely good books that I became aware of and am reading this week. The first one was mentioned in the book section of the Chronicle. It is the Future of the American City by Alan Ehrenhalt. Basically it deals with something that we see a lot of, that is, urban areas are a lot more desirable than they were 20 or 30 years ago when people were trying to get as far away from urban areas as they could. This is not just a phenomenon in San Francisco or in the United States, but is worldwide, and it has been happening for the last 200 or 300 years in the world as opposed to the last 50 years or so when suburbanization began. I've only finished about 1/3 of it, but he makes some really good points and it is very good reading.  The other one is "In the Sand."  The author Laurie Ungariedi has written about the story of the Sunset District from about 1850 through 1955 and how that area  was reclaimed and the people involved in settling the area and the housing and the builders, and a lot of transit stories. It is an extremely good book to read. It talks about the history of a significant portion of San Francisco.
Commissioner Miguel:
I have finished "The Future of the American City”. I disagree a little bit with Alan Ehrenhalt's first book. I personally I do not think it is very well written, although it has a lot of information in it.  He takes a long time to say something.  Its concentration is in the United Sates mainly from Chicago east.  It is interesting that the San Jose City Council just passed a resolution that affects high rise residential tower development in downtown in order to increase the number of businesses.  They are trying to guarantee an application review of 120 days; they are doing a 50% reduction in fees; and 50% reduction in construction related taxes.  There are a bunch more stuff and I have not read all of the details or all of the legislations on it.  But it sort of falls within the same category of movement from suburbia to downtown in effect, and that has been happening in San Francisco for some time now.  From what I read in Alan Ehrenhalt’s book, we are probably a bit ahead of the curve.  He entirely missed the West Coast.
Commissioner Sugaya:
Director Rahaim mentioned that there was an interesting internet site where they discuss a lots of urban issues, but there was an interesting short comment from a person who was saying that [they] took another look at high rise development and are making the argument that in the future, with energy shortages, high rises will in essence be unlivable and argues for a more medium density approach.
Since we are talking about books, “The Season of the Witch”, which just came out.  It is about the history of the City of San Francisco government and politics from the late 60s thru the 80s.
Also, on May 4th there was an article regarding the Academy of Art University luncheon honoring etc., etc., and speeches were made and Ed Lee stopped by and proclaimed our university "a beautiful institution" that has "done so much to fill so many vacancies in our City."  Is the Mayor on board with this Commission is my question. We know that the Academy of Art has had multiple numbers of violations, not only in the Planning Code, but also Building Code violations, DPW code violations, and sidewalk encroachment violations. Some of those have been corrected over the years, however, there is still an outstanding member of Conditional Use violations that this Commission has not taken up, because there is supposedly an Environmental Impact Review ongoing because of the Master Plan, but they keep buying additional properties, which continues to delay the process and the ability of this Commission to take up the issues. I think this quote flies in the face of the Commission's ability to do its work, and I think we should send him a note.
Commissioner Antonini:
Just in regard to Commissioner Sugaya's comments, you have to bear in mind that what is in newspapers is often taken out of context and we may not always agree on things.
.
5.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
There was nothing at the Land Use Committee this week. The Board of Supervisors did have a lengthy meeting to make up for it. They had final readings on a couple of ordinances that you previously considered. The first was an ordinance from Supervisor Mar that will allow a 5-foot Increase for certain active uses is in the Richmond District. You heard this ordinance on February 6th and your recommendations were incorporated into the ordinance that did pass this week. Similarly, Articles 10 and 11 now sponsored by Supervisors Wiener and Olague passed on final reading at the Board of Supervisors. This now puts the Historic Preservation Commission into the Planning Code. It has now been adopted by the Board of Supervisors.
There was an appeal for the conditional use authorization for 8 Washington, as well as a CEQA appeal for this project. This is a proposal to demolish the existing Gateway Club and put in a new health club and residential buildings, two to 12 stories with about 134 dwelling units.  These two appeals were combined to save time. Nonetheless, the hearing ran past 12:30 a.m. and the primary concerns vary from the lack of recreational facilities and parking impacts to financial considerations, such as what are the public benefits, including those for affordable housing and whether they are sufficient. Urban design and flow on the Waterfront were also questioned. The district Supervisor and Board President Chiu led the questioning. The supervisors felt the PUC and CU were being authorized and he felt that this was reflecting a high increase that had not been addressed. This was due in part to the timing of the appeals. Whereas this Commission typically considers things first required by law, then the policy document and the General Plan, and then on to the Zoning Map and finally, entitlements. At the last hearing, this was different for the Board because of the appeal. The only considered CEQA first and then entitlements. The height reclassification will return to the Board in June, as will the Development Agreement and on Tuesday, after most of the discussion, the first discussion by President Chiu was to table the EIR. The EIR was then certified 8-3., Next there was a motion to consider a continuation hearing. The last was an authorization of the CU vote and it did pass; then there was the Administrative Code to add limitations on eligibility, application deadlines, to add a timeline for the receipt of the report and to make various changes. This will be scheduled for you in the near term.
There were a couple of ordinances that were introduced and that we have been working with the Mayor and staff on. The first is the transportation Sustainability Fee. I believe the Director has provided you with a great deal regarding that; and the second was the Impact Fee and the development updates.
6.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Boardof Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
Board of Supervisors:
LAND USE COMMITTEE: no planning / land use items
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS: No Planning / Land Use Items
This week the Board approved the Ordinance on FINAL reading.
INTRODUCTIONS:
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals did meet last night. One item before the commission was an appeal of the wireless permit for 156 27thAvenue; it is in the public right-of-way in front of that property. It is a permit issued by the Department of Public Works and is in the public right of way. We do review those, in this case, because of what is on a good view street. We found that it was compatible and the Board of Appeals disagreed with that and actually denied the permit. They denied the wireless permit for that location. Also, last night was President Garcia's last hearing. He has been on the Board of Appeals for seven years and prior to that, the Ethics Commission for two years. He has been serving since I have been going to the Board of Appeals. He has been a consistent presence along with Commissioner Fong. I found him to be very prepared and fastidious and funny as well. It has been a privilege to have him as a commissioner on the Board of Appeals. We wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
On May 16th, a Certificate of Appropriateness to changes at the location that is part of the housing at Laguna appeared along with the project sponsors. Supervisor Wiener spoke in support of the project. The Commission voted unanimously to approve. Also at this hearing, the Commission considered extending the delegation of Minor permits to Alter to Department staff for Administrative review and action. This delegation of authority to the Department has lowered the cost and helped streamline projects that otherwise require a public hearing before HPC. At the conclusion of the hearing, they directed staff to further provide information on how to improve the review process and further help reduce cost and time for project applicants. We intend to provide more information in early July. Unless you have questions, that concludes my report.
7.                                                                                                   (T. OJEDA: (415) 558-6251)
2011 HOUSING INVENTORY REPORT-Announcing the publication of the2011 Housing Inventory.This report is the 42nd in the series and describes San Francisco’s housing supply.Housing Inventorydata accounts for new housing construction, demolitions, and alterations in a consistent format for analysis of housing production trends.  Net housing unit gains are reported citywide, by zoning classification, and by planning district.  Other areas covered include affordable housing production, condominium conversions, and changes to the residential hotel stock.  In addition, lists of major housing projects completed and approved for construction in 2011 are provided.  A list of affordable housing projects in the pipeline (projects in various stages of review or pre-construction planning) is included to provide a picture of likely housing construction activity in the near future.  Report is available for the public at the Planning Department and on the website.
Preliminary Recommendation: No Action required.  Information only.
SPEAKERS:     Linda Chapman, Sue Hestor, Steve Vettel
ACTION:           Information only. No action