All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
5.2011.1049B(D. SÁNCHEZ: (415) 575-9082)
1098 HARRISON STREET- north side of Harrison Street between 7thand Sherman Streets, Lot 017 in Assessor's Block 3754 -Request for Office Development Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 179.1 and 321 to establish 42,039 gross square feet of office use under the Eastern Neighborhoods Legitimization Program in the MUG (Mixed Use General) District and 65-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18700
6.2012.0953C(D. SÁNCHEZ: (415) 575-9082)
1195 EVANS AVENUE- southeast corner of Evans Avenue and Keith Street; Lot 016 in Assessor’s Block 4602A -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 226(h) and 303 to expand an existing brewery (d.b.a. Speakeasy Ales and Lagers) 4,635 square feet into an adjacent warehouse space within the PDR-2 (Core Production Distribution and Repair) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18701
7a.2012.0358CV(P. LaValley: (415) 575-9084)
180 JONES STREET/181 TURK STREET-southeast corner of Jones and Turk Streets, Assessor's Block 0343, Lot 014 -Requestfor an amendment to the conditions of approval for a previously approved Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 161(h), 253, and 303.The proposal would amend the conditions of approvalto extend the performance period for an additional three years for a previously approved project(Case No. 2005.0267CV, Motion No. 17838)todemolish an existing surface parking lot andconstruct an 8-story, mixed-use development containing up to 37 residential units, approximately 2,700 square feet of ground floor retail space, and a reduction in required off-street parking for a total of 8 off-street parking spaces.  Theamendment proposes no changes to the design or intensity of the project as originally approved.  The Zoning Administrator will hear a related request for extension of a previously approved exposure variance and rear yard modification.  The subject property is withinthe Uptown Tenderloin National Register District, the RC-4 (Residential-Commercial, High Density) District, the North of Market Special Use District, Subarea #1, and an 80-120-T Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18702
7b.2012.0358CV(P. LAVALLEY:  (415) 575-9084)
180 JONES STREET/181 TURK STREET-southeast corner of Jones and Turk Streets, Assessor's Block 0343, Lot 014-Request for three year time extension of Variancesfor previously approved project fromdwelling-unit exposure requirements of Planning Code Section 140 and for a rear yard modification pursuant to Planning Code Section 134(f)(1). The previously approved project is todemolish an existing surface parking lot andconstruct an 8-story, mixed-use development containing up to 37 residential units, approximately 2,700 square feet of ground floor retail space, and up to 8 off-street parking spaces. The amendment proposes no changes to the design or intensity of the project as originally approved.  The subject property is within the Uptown Tenderloin National Register District, the RC-4 (Residential-Commercial, High Density) District, the North of Market Special Use District, Subarea #1, and an 80-120-T Height and Bulk District.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           TheZoning Administrator closed the public hearing and stated his inclination to grant the extension of the variances
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
8.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Yesterday, the Joint Subcommittee of the Historic Preservation and Planning Commissions met and discussed an issue regarding classification of the position, which we can't talk about the details of, but we did have commentary from some of the members of the Department of Human Resources. The meeting was held in response to their earlier correspondence with us. Now they will reconsider and respond to us in another week in writing in regards to this meeting and other things they've considered.  The next meeting of the Subcommittee will occur on Tuesday, September 27. Commissioners Moore and Borden were in attendance and may have comments in regards to the meeting, in addition to what I have said.
Commissioner Borden:
I will just say that as a consequence, just so people -- the public knows, we have not noticed the position yet for the Commission Secretary. So we are working with the Department of Human Resources to get closure on the process that we're going through so that we can actually post the position and hopefully we will find a replacement by the year end..
Commissioner Antonini:
I did have one other item to mention: in the press there was mention of a proposal that is to come to the Board of Supervisors. One would assume it will also be heard in our hearings.  The proposal is by Supervisor Wiener and jointly proposed by Board President David Chiu that would allow projects in the future to have car share units that would not be counted against their allowed residential parking ratio.  I think this is a great idea because it allows the best of two worlds and makes projects more viable. Anyway, we'll see which direction this goes in, but I was happy to hear about that, and I think it's really going to help to encourage the provision of more car share spaces and projects that may come before us.
Commissioner Sugaya
The process to find a new secretary has sort of dragged on a bit. Do we know Linda's current plans?
Commissioner Borden:
Commission Secretary said yesterday that even though her date to retire was technically this Friday that she's currently extended it to October 31, but I don't know what her position is beyond that point.
Commissioner Moore:
It is fair to say she has been supportive of the process and has taken stewardship leading us to find the right person and create the transition by which this will occur in a smooth and good way.
9.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Actually, I don't have much to report today except to tell you I'll be out of the office for a few days for a family gathering from tomorrow until next Wednesday.  Bill Wycko will be in charge of the Department in my absence.
10.        Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
-Introducing a Policy Credits program for non-formula retail small businesses occupying existing vacant space up to 5,000 gsf and for project building less than the maximum allowed parking
-Allowing those two types of projects to receive a fee waiver up to 100% of the fee, under the Policy Credits program
-Implementing a grandfathering period through the end of calendar  year 2013 for specific projects not currently subject to TIDF (non-profit and institutional uses, automotive services, wholesale storage of materials and equipment), which would be subject to the revised TIDF
-Retaining the five-year timeframe for inactive uses
-Providing the SFMTA with collection and appeal procedures and authority; and
-Clarifying that the accessory use provision excludes uses accessory to residential
Mayor Lee introduced substitute legislation on September 4, 2012, which included all of the recommendations made by the Planning Commission and which clarified that the SFMTA collects and enforces the TIDF in those cases where a certificate of occupancy for a project has already been issued.  (If a CFO has not been issued, DBI collects and enforces.)  Supervisors Wiener and Olague co-sponsored the substitute legislation.  This week the LU Committee heard staff from the Small Business Commission and the SFMTA spoke in support of the ordinance, as did a representative of PDR uses who had also spoken at the Planning Commission’s hearing on the item.The Committee recommended approval.
Supervisor Olague did not include this modification in the Ordinance.  She felt that the CU process was sufficient to ensure that the car washes were compatible with the character of the neighborhood and that the proposed modification wasn’t necessary.The Land use committee then recommended approval.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
INTRODUCTIONS:
BOARD OF APPEALS:
Beach Chalet:
Rehearing request for the Board’s action to deny the appeal of the Planning Commission’s approval of a Local Coastal Zone Permit for the Beach Chalet Athletic Fields.  The Appellant argued that the Board should grant a rehearing because of new information.  The Appellant also provided arguments related to the Project’s EIR.  The Department noted two points: 1) that this information had been presented to the Board of Appeals at the August 1, 2012 hearing and 2) that the Appellant had not requested a rescheduling or continuance at that time.The Board voted unanimously to deny the rehearing request.
4218 Mission Street:
Appeal of a building permit application for “soft demo” without any change in use.This property is also the future site of an MCD (Green Cross) which was approved by the Planning Commission in February 2012.  However, the change of use permit is still under review by other City agencies and has not been issued.  The Department noted that the permit on appeal does not change the use of the property to an MCD. The Appellant continued with arguments as to why an MCD should not be located at this property.  After several hours of public comment from individuals both in support of and opposition to the MCD, theBoard voted to deny the appeal and approve the permit because the permit does not authorize an MCD.  The Appellant indicated that they will file an appeal on the permit which authorized the change the use to an MCD when it is issued by the City.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No meeting