All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2012.0456X(A. HOLLISTER:  (415) 575-9078)
1390 MARKET STREET-north side bounded by Hayes, Polk and Market Streets; Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 0813 -Request for an amendment to the conditions of approval for a Determination of Compliance with Planning Code Section 309. Specifically, the amendment proposes to extend the performance period for an additional two years for a previously approved project to construct an 11-story building containing up to 250 dwelling units and approximately 19,880 square feet of ground-floor commercial uses. The amendment proposes no changes to the design or intensity of the project as originally approved. The subject property is located within the C-3-G (Downtown General Commercial) Zoning District and the 120-X and 200-S Height and Bulk Districts.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Andrew Junius
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18673
3.2012.0348C(A. Putra: (415) 575-9079)
175 JUNIPERO SERRA BOULEVARD- northeast corner of Junipero Serra Boulevard  and Darien Way; Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 3250 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.3(f) and 303 to establish a child care facility for 15 or more children (d.b.a Alpha Kids Academy) within an existing church.  The proposed child care facility is located within an RH-1(D) (Residential, Single-family, Detached) District, and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Lana Kaminsky, John W. Mitchell, Margaret Finley, Roger Ritter, Joseph DeFrisco, Stephanie Cuff, Janet Saleh, Catherine Kalessis
ACTION:           Approved with amendments to require: Crossing Guard(s), white zone(s), and a traffic plan
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18674
4.2011.1410B(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
275 BRANNAN STREET- located on the southwest corner of Brannan and Colin P. Kelly, Jr. Streets, Lot 009 in Assessor’s Block 3789 -Request for an Office Development Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 321, 842.65 and 842.66 for approximately 48,500 gross square feet on the first, second, and third floors within the MUO (Mixed Use Office) Zoning District, South End Historic District, and a 65-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu,Borden, Moore, Sugaya
RECUSED:       Antonini
MOTION:18672
5.2012.0672C(E. Jackson: (415) 558-6363)
777 VALENCIA STREET- east side between 18thand 19thStreets; Lots 088 and 108 in Assessor’s Block 3589 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 121.2, 303, and 726.53, to enlarge the use size authorization for a Jazz Club (dbaPreservation Hall West) and Restaurants approved under Motion 18225 from 8,595 square feet to 10,015 square feet, and to allow 2,952 square feet of Business and Professional Services on the second floor. The project is located within the Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District (Valencia NCT), a 55-X Height and Bulk
District, and the Mission Alcoholic Beverage Special Use Subdistrict.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved as proposed
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18670
6.2012.0274C(S.Young: (415) 558-6346)
542 - 550 DIVISADERO STREET- east side between Hayes and Fell Streets; Lots 024 and 037 in Assessor’s Block 1203 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 121.2, 303, and 711.21 to allow a use size over 4,000 square feet through the combination of a vacant retail commercial tenant space (previously occupied by a grocery store d.b.a. Divisadero Farmer’s Market Liquor & Deli) at 550 Divisadero Street with a vacant commercial tenant space (previously occupied by a grooming and pet supply store d.b.a. Tae Hee’s) to establish an approximately 7,350 square foot  grocery store (d.b.a. Bi-Rite).  There will be an interior connection between the two buildings, with the grocery store customer service areas located at 550 Divisadero Street and the storage and refrigeration areas located at 542 Divisadero Street.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved as proposed
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18671
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
7.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of May 24, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of June 14, 2012
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden, Moore, Sugaya
8.COMMISSION SECRETARY POSITION–Announcement/Posting
Members of theCommission Secretary Search Sub-Committee will brief the Commissionon the activities and achievements to date to fill the Commission Secretary position once the current position becomes vacant in the fall.  The Commission could consider the draft Job Announcement and list of posting venues for approval or modification.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 19, 2012)
ACTION:           Meeting held. The Commission did not make any changes or amendments to the draft job announcement or list of venues to post the job announcement.  There was no action by the Commission.
9.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I am wondering if the City Attorney could give us an explanation regarding 8 Washington, due to the fact that I have never on my time on the Commission seen a Commission decision and Board of Supervisors' decision move to the potential of the ballot box. I understand sufficient signatures were submitted for that to happen in putting this on the ballot.
Susan Cleveland-Knowels, Deputy City Attorney
We can give you a more in depth update either later today or next week but, in general, any legislative decision can be reprimanded within 30 days of that decision through the collection of a certain number of signatures and other procedures.  In terms of moving forward now, I understand the Board of Supervisors has an opportunity to consider the project one more time before it goes to a vote of the people. That is what I know at this point. But if you have other questions, I would have to look into that at a later date.
Commissioner Moore:
I was curious about the process because few of us have seen it under the microscope. It has not happened for a long time. It would be fun to hear.
I have a second point while we are asking questions. We might want to discuss what the real entitlement process really should or should not do. We have over the last six to eight months because of changing economic trends, been bombarded with large projects.  I am not referring to anything on today's calendar. But generally I want to know like on consumer products there is a date of expiration, do we have something like that as well? Do city plans change? We are sometimes carrying projects around 8-10 or however …; many years go without actually taking a closer look at them.  Revisiting an architectural solution; revisiting some of the land use assumptions; is that anything that would be in the interest of this Commission to consider? I would obviously ask that the Mayor's Office of Economic Development might look into this, or everyone else could also. But I think it is an idea given that we have already had this new development project on the City for far too long.
Commissioner Antonini:
In response to the question from Commissioner Moore, I think there have been some attempts at ballot measures, but I do not think any of them in the past got enough to qualify during my tenure on the Planning Commission. I know in another jurisdiction there was an attempt and some demonstrated action. There are time concerns and everything else. I think the City Attorney will brief us on the various parameters around these types of things.
On another note, I am really encouraged to see the spirit of cooperation between the branches of city government in the past few days, with particular reference to the budget, and the measures that will be on the ballot, like the tax reforms. While we still have to look at these particular measures in detail, it is encouraging to see various branches working in harmony. I am hopeful that spirit of cooperation continues until next Tuesday as the Board of Supervisors will consider my reappointment to the Planning Commission.  I would like to continue for another four years. Almost everyone knows where to get a hold of me, but for those of you that did not have my contact information you can call me day or night on my cell phone. I turn it off at night, so I would never be up in the middle of the night. I have received comments from many people over the years, but I want to make sure we cast the net as broadly as possible so everyone can get a hold of me if they have issues or concerns. Thank you very much
Commissioner Sugaya:
This morning's newspaper had an article about the item on the agenda today. The article made the same error that people make all the time with this when they testify before the Commission on an environmental impact report. A draft environmental impact report has to have a hearing before the Planning Commission, and when people come to testify at that hearing, many people make the assumption that they are testifying about the project or plan, and that is not the case. Comments should be made, as always explained by staff on the accuracy of the environmental impact report itself. The report is quite different than the plan or project. The time to comment on the project or plan comes later. Often times it is three-six months later. At that time the commission will take up the actual project and make a decision at that time. The article perpetuated that error by saying people should come and testify today on the plan, and in this case we are not having a hearing on the plan, we are having a hearing on the environmental report. The article compounded the confusion that will take place later this afternoon.
Secondly, another article about BART and the elevators that are out of commission due to the things that take place.  I think there is a simple solution, which people have been talking about for years, and that is cover the escalators when they are not running.  For some reason they have never consider putting shelter over the top of the escalators, which I understand will help long-term maintenance.Commissioner Moore:
Perhaps it is fair to say perhaps those journalists who do not know the City processes, that perhaps the Planning Department could make itself available to give updates and distinguished what kind of process produces what.
10.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
First, I want to announce I believe you got the media announcement of the new selection for the Current Planning Director for the Department. That position is the one that oversees the entitlement process and zoning process, including preservation and public information counter and manages the largest group in the department of over 50 people. That position was offered and accepted by Jeff Joslin, He is an architect. For 13 years he managed the land use, the urban design and preservation teams for the City of Portland, including management of the Portland Design Commission and Historic Landmarks Commission, and in the past five or six years has been a private consultant and developer. He brings a very strong range of experience to the Department and the City. He will be starting his position officially in October, but will be coming to the City for several weeks in August and September and would like to see both Commission meetings in August, so you will have a chance to meet him at that time as well. Secondly, I would like to introduce several of the intern's. We have 16 interns at the Department this summer. There are five of them here today. We have had over 450 applicants for this program from all over the world.  We're very excited about them being here this summer. Let me just briefly talk about some of the projects they're working on. There is a project to assist the preservation data collection and identification of the historic districts, and revise the web site content to focus primarily on getting information to the public about existing local landmarks. There is a land use survey going on in various labor commercial districts to help us do some of the work. There is also the Invest in Neighborhoods Program, which has been an issue -- and interest to the department for several years. Work is going on with Connections, a program you heard about in the past, which is conducting research and compiling information on best practices. We're going on to enhance the transportation demand management programs. There is information on urban food systems within the City, collecting information about that and about what the City and other places in the region do. We're working on the driveway standards guidelines and analyzing the information from 2000-2010 Census. There is work assisting AnMarie Rodgers of the Legislative Team and responding to inquiries and further work, which as been going on for quite some time, research and creation of the archeological district. As part of the call-week program, each mentor has a planner to manage and supervise their work. Last week I understand Commissioner Wu invited the interns to Chinatown. Thank you. They really enjoyed that. There was a discussion about planning in the non-profit sector. In the final week of the program they will present the work to staff during a noontime series. We are very happy to have them all. I like to read off the list of names. Susan Parks, Denise Low, Alexandra Curby, Joseph Kramer, Ben Caldwell, Wendy Chen, Angela Lock, and Sarah Mullins. Thank you all. We're really happy to have you here.
11.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
Appeals:
This Commission approved a CU for this project on April 26 of this year.  The project would allow the conversion of a single-family dwelling into a private elementary school operated by Children’s Day School.  The appellants raised questions about compliance with the General Plan and that the project may not have been “exempt” from CEQA review.  At the start of the hearing, district Supervisor  Wiener announced that an agreement had been reached between the two parties.  The agreement would result in a reduction of the rooftop open space as well as the hours of use for this space.With that agreement in mind, the Board voted to uphold the Cat Ex and then to overturn the CU so the new conditions could be added.
INTRODUCTIONS:
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals did meet last night. While there were not any items of interest to the Planning Commission, it was the first meeting for Commissioner Ann Lazarus, who previously served on the Port Commission, so President Fong would be acquainted with her. We look forward to working with her on the Board of Appeals. They are meeting next week on August 1, and they do have an appeal of a Planning Commission action to approve the local coastal zone permit for the Beach Chalet Athletic Field, that hearing will be next weekend. I will report back to you on Thursday.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No meeting