All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing.
4.2012.0741C(C. Lamorena: (415) 575-9085)
3235 SACRAMENTO STREET-south side between Presidio Avenue and Lyon Street; Lot 023 in Assessor’s Block 1022 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 724.52, to convert vacant commercial space previously occupied by a retail store (d.b.a. Quatrine) into a children’s hair salon (personal service use d.b.a. PREP) on the ground floor of a two-story  over basement commercial building within the Sacramento Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
MOTION:18689
5.2012.0822C(C. Lamorena: (415) 575-9085)
1865 POST STREET-south side between Fillmore and Webster Streets; Lot 002 in Assessor’s Block 0701 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 249.31, 303, and 712.48, to add a new use size in excess of 4,000 square feet as an “Other Entertainment” use to an existing restaurant (d.b.a. Pa’ina Lounge and Restaurant) within the NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate-Scale) Zoning District, Japantown Special Use District, and 50-X Height and Bulk District.  The proposal would add live and amplified music during the restaurant’s evening operating hours.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Chris Durazo – Representing Supervisor Olague, Nancy Gribler, Linsey Grayson,
ACTION:           Following discussion, continued to 9/13/12
AYES:             Antonini,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
NAYES:            Fong and Wu
ABSENT:          Borden
6.2012.0409B(T. Sullivan: (415) 558-6257)
China Basin LANDING – 980 Third Street & 185 Berry Street- collectively known as China Basin – south side of Berry Street between Third and Fourth Streets and fronting Mission Creek, Lot 005 in Assessor's Block 3803 -Request for Office Development Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 321, 322, and 842.66 to establish 101,982 gross square feet of office use, which results in a total of 834,422 gross square feet on the site (492,000 square feet in 980 Third Street, 342,422 square feet in 185 Berry Street), in the MUO (Mixed Use Office) District and 90-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 9, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
MOTION:18690
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
8.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of July 12, 2012
(Continued from the Regular Meeting of 8/9/12)
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of August 2, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
9.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I would like to ask Director Rahaim if there is more information on if there might be a developer picking up the Visitacion Valley project that disappeared?  We were all very, very disappointed. I like to read a one or two liner that there might be somebody expressing interest with some hint that he might be repackaging the project; but if you have information at whatever time, I would love to hear from you.
Commissioner Antonini:
A couple of weeks ago, there was a thoughtful and well-written article in "The Chronicle". The columnist was talking about the general state of appearance in dress in San Francisco and was not really complimentary, for good reason.  Having been a child who was brought in from the East Bay, downtown was a little different. She did comment particularly on how the women dressed. There were some letters that were really good and I thought it was humorous but with a certain amount of truth. The land use angle of this we hope is as the dress may improve, design will also continue to improve – not that previous design has all been bad, but certainly there's always room for improvement. I hope that's a trend of things to come.
10.        Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I would like to introduce you to the new Director of Current Planning in the Department, Jeff Joslin. He joins us from the fair City of Portland, but of course he has found religion and is moving south. Jeffrey has a great range of experience, and that I think will make him a great choice for this position. He has twenty years of experience in planning, architecture, economic development and urban design. He managed the City of Portland’s Urban Design team and specifically projects that went before the Design Commission and the Historic Preservation Commission. The last three or four years he has been working as a consultant, both as urban consultant and planning and developer. The range of experience and the fact that he is a registered architect, will be an asset to the Department. He will be taking the largest single group of staff of the Department, which has 55 employees and includes Current Planning, as well as the Permit counter and Historic Preservation. We'll have Jeff on board and he will start in this position officially on October 9. He will be here for some time before then.
11.        Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
No Meeting
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Meeting
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
My report will be a little bit longer than normal. The Architectural Review Committee met before the regular hearing to review and offer design suggestions for a project at 1 Jones “Street (the old Hibernia Bank building). The project is proposing a series of life safety upgrades for the new assembly. The Architectural Review Committee was impressed with the level of sensitivity taken, with retaining as much of the historic interior and exterior as possible. This is currently going through CEQA review and will move through this fall. The Historic Preservation Commission initiated the first landmark district, and this is the first initiation for the city of San Francisco since 2003. The Commission initiated the landmark designation of the continuous district, with the buildings clad and bricks across the Mid-Market area identified as part of the market and Octavia Plan. Planning staff has conducted an extensive public outreach with each of those building owners and we have support except for one building that we are still trying to contact for the landmark designation. Because this is the initiation of a landmark district, a recommendation by this Commission is required before it goes to the Board of Supervisors. We hope to have this for you by late September. We also improved several entitlements.  One of them was 1355 Market Street. The Twitter Building at the old SF Furniture Mart. There were a series of storefront operations and -- and outdoor space along Stevenson Alley. We also reviewed this project with the project design team for a June 6 hearing. This was to procure entitlements, and we complied with the recommendations of the Department's staff and the Architectural Review Committee, and there was the ground floor storefront alterations along Market Street, and the HPC voted to approve the project with minor revisions to the conditions proposed by staff.
HPC also approved a project for the Bayview Opera House. There were a series of upgrades including a new outdoor stage and landscape improvements surrounding the Opera House. This project was funded through the Redevelopment Agency and the remains from the former Redevelopment Agency, including a very elevated walkway to provide access along the entire site.There was a great deal of discussion about the contemporary design of the elevated walkway.They did approve the project with some modifications to the walkway, to allow for a strongerperformance with the interior standards and some of the items found here. This is a turn-of-the-century structure and some of this could be softened by introducing more materials to the elevated portions of the wall.
Finally, the HPC reviewed the Veterans Memorial Courtyard, which has been proposed since the original design of the War Memorial building.  The Courtyard is between the Opera House and the War Memorial Building. Thomas Church intended for this to be included at this location but for many reasons, political and financial, nothing had been designed. After a great deal of discussion about some of the modifications, which include the grades and the configurations of historic hedges, they did approve this project for the installation of the new Veterans Memorial Courtyard.