All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
1.2012.1097C(C. TEAGUE: (415) 575-9081)
201 FOLSOM STREET (A.K.A. 314 MAIN STREET)- east side between Main and Beale Streets; Lot 003 (previously Lot 001) of Assessor’s Block 3746 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Section 303(e) to modify the performance period condition of Motion No. 16647 for Case No. 2000.1073C to extend the approval period another year from the date of expiration of the previous extension approval (Motion No. 17945) of a mixed use project consisting of two residential towers of heights of 350 and 400 feet above an 80-foot podium, with up to 725 dwelling units, 750 off-street parking spaces, and 38,000 square feet of commercial space, in a RC-4 (Residential-Commercial Combined, High Density Districts) and a 400-W Height and Bulk District; and within the Folsom and Main Residential/Commercial Special Use District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of October 11, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     Carl Sherman, Sue Hestor, Andrew Green
ACTION:            Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
MOTION:18719
2.2012.0543T(A. RODGERS (415) 558-6395)
INTENT TO INITIATE DEPARTMENT-SPONSORED PLANNING CODE AMENDMENTS TO FIX ERRORS IN THE PLANNING CODE- Pursuant to Planning Code Section 302, the Planning Commission will consider aResolution of Intentionto initiate amendments to the Planning Code. The amendments are intended to (1) correct clerical errors in Planning Code text, (2) revise existing graphics to be consistent with the existing text, (3) amend various zoning control tables, (4) improve Planning Code readability, and (5) adopt findings, including findings under the California Environmental Quality Act, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve a draft Resolution of Intention to initiate amendments to the Planning Code and schedule a public hearing to consider the amendments on or after November 29, 2012.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of October 11, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:18718
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
3.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of September 6, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of September 13, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of September 20, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Special Meeting of September 20, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of September 27, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of October 4, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Approved with corrections to the Regular Meetings of September 20, & October 4, 2012
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
4.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Borden:
Today is California West Coast Shake Out which is to create awareness around earthquake preparedness. It happened at 10:18 A.M., and 9 million Californians participated. The whole idea was to stop, drop and cover. Basically, in the case of a disaster, you need to get under a sturdy piece of furniture or doorway – preferably under a piece of furniture if things are falling. I also wanted the public to know that the Red Cross launched an earthquake app available on both IPhone and Android. You can download the plan; send it to your family members; store your information; and find where shelters are in your community. You can get notifications when there are earthquakes in various places. You have the apps to click a button to say ‘I'm okay.’ So, if there is an earthquake your family members can find out about it. I wanted to make sure the public was aware this resource exists.  I was thinking about preparedness since we live in an earthquake zone.Commissioner Antonini:
Number one: just acknowledging that the American Dental Association is meeting in San Francisco beginning today through Sunday.  It's a large convention and we're happy to have it and we're one of a rotation of three or four cities that is able to host that throughout the country. Secondly, the [Joint] Subcommittees met last week and will meet again this coming Wednesday on the 24thto move forward.  We will discuss that when we can with the [Commission] body as a whole, it's actually going to be calendared in the future if I'm not mistaken. And thirdly, I always wonder why we've been so fortunate in San Francisco to be the origin of so many innovative projects, inventions, concepts and businesses. Everywhere you go, you see things that were invented here. You see businesses that began here worldwide, not in the region, but specifically in the 49 square miles of San Francisco, and, of course, you know, obviously at the beginning of the port. The advantage of having the bay was the first factor. But I also think that one other advantage we have is our weather. Although everyone loves today's weather out there, I think if you have to do things in this heat and have to go long distances, it sort of may discourage your creativity. So, we're kind of blessed with, you know, a milder climate that makes you feel like doing things and that may be another reason and we also have generally, at least in the downtown area, fairly flat areas from which to communicate with one another. There's a book called "The Importance of Cities," and the author was noted as saying “large dense cities influence productivity;” and, you know, the utilization of the creative sectors in particular. He also says that the denseness results in knowledge spillovers which, you know, is one reason why one business attracts another close to it. Everybody talks about IPhones and electronic communications, but a lot of the spillover is still word of mouth, especially the more sensitive parts of it that, you know, can't be traced. If it's just a conversation, so, that's another reason maybe why businesses bunch together in areas where they're close to each other physically. So, interesting reading, and I found that to be quite interesting.
Commissioner Moore:
I have asked the Director, actually, to give this Securities and Exchange Commission and the public an update regarding an e-mail I received yesterday regarding the festival which is supposed to take place this week on Urban Prototyping. I could not even actually capture the abbreviation [of it], but I don't want to speak, but want him to speak to explain it to us.
5.         Update and Discussion of Commission Secretary Search process
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Update and discussion only – no action
6.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I just did want to report on this Urban Prototyping Festival that Commissioner Moore mentioned earlier. It is sponsored by the -- I forget the name of the organization all of a sudden -- the Bay Area Foundation for the Arts. It is a nonprofit based here in San Francisco, and the festival is essentially a day-long event that is focused on the public realm, but specifically about the interaction of urban design, public art and technology, and how those three interdisciplinary field can come together and address issues of the public. In fact, festival may be an incorrect word. Part of the event is essentially a workshop were folks from those three disciplines come together and create prototypes for thinking of the public environment in a different way.  They will be posting these.  The idea of these is that they can be replicated across the country. It is taking place Saturday -- I forget the hours, excuse me -- I believe it's from Noon to 10:00 P.M. and it's taking place around the streets of 5th and Mission - around the Old Chronicle properties. Literally they'll be closing off those alleys on the southwest corner of 5th and Mission where The Chronicle buildings are today. There are some speakers between roughly 12:00 and 4:00. I will be speaking late in the program just in general about the City's growth and how we're thinking about the public realm. And then later in the afternoon and evening there will be music and other events going on as well. But it's a very interesting. I think the most interesting part of it to me is that the interdisciplinary actions on how one might address the public realm differently and it is meant to be replicable in cities across the country. We certainly welcome your participation.
7.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·Lastly another Ordinance that would amend the Administrative Code to ensure the “Right to Return to Revitalized Public Housing” also sponsored by Supervisor Olague was heard.  The Planning Commission heard this item on Sept 27, at that time the Supervisor was still working with MOH and SFHA on changes so this commission recommended approval of the “return policy” but did not take a position on the details which were in flux.  Since your hearing the Supervisor continued to work with both agencies and the Ordinance was amended with their support in early October.This week the ordinance was unanimously recommended for approval to the Full Board.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
INTRODUCTIONS:
10/2/12:
§120220 v.2Planning Code - Signage Requirements for Privately-Owned Public Open Spaces.Ordinance amending the San Francisco Planning Code to: 1) consolidate into Section 138 the requirements for privately-owned public open space; 2) create a new Zoning Administrator Bulletin that will contain detailed design and graphics requirements for the required informational plaques.
§
10/9/12:
§111278 v. 2.Establishing the Art and Design Ed. SUD - 1111 Eighth Street. Supe. Cohen.Ordinance amending the San Francisco Planning Code by adding Section 249.67 and amending Section Map SU08 of the Zoning Map to: 1) establish the Art and Design Educational Special Use District at 1111 Eighth Street to facilitate the continued operation of the California College of the Arts and provide a regulatory scheme for a potential future phased expansion of the campus.(Banales)
§120882 v. 2. Administrative Code - Board of Supervisors Review of Affordable Housing Trust Fund Supe. Chiu.Ordinance amending the San Francisco Administrative Code by adding Section 1.60 to require the Mayor's Office of Housing and the Planning Department to report to the Board of Supervisors every five years on the implementation of Charter Section 16.110, the Affordable Housing Trust Fund Charter Amendment.  (Haddadan)
§120996.  Planning Code - Efficiency Dwelling Units - Numerical Cap and Open/Common Space Requirements.Supe. Wiener.Ordinance amending the San Francisco Planning Code by: 1) adding Section 318 to put a cap on the number of Efficiency Dwelling Units, as defined in the Building Code, that can be constructed with reduced square footage unless the units are group housing, affordable housing, or student housing; 2) amending Section 135(d) and adding Section 135.4 to impose open space and common space requirements on Efficiency Dwelling Units with reduced square footage. (Hayward)
This week:
§1201019Ordinance amending the San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 31 to revise our local implementation of CEQA and to update and clarify certain procedures provided for in Chapter 31.Under Supervisor Wiener’s legislation, the CEQA appeal period would be triggered by the first project approval, as opposed to the last project approval, which is the case currently. Citizens would still have the right to appeal all CEQA decision, but they would have to do so in a timely manner and not months or years after the decision.  San Francisco’s current Administrative Code provides that the appeal period has to be within 15 to 30 days of the last project approval, even if the CEQA decision occurred months or years before. Thus, if a project requires multiple project approvals – for example, several different building permits, a curb cut permit, and an encroachment permit – a CEQA appeal can be filed after the very last approval, even if that occurs years after the CEQA determination was issued. The legislation would also increase requirements for public noticing of CEQA determinations, so that members of the public know when a CEQA determination has been made. This change will improve public transparency around CEQA decisions.30-day hold expires 11/16.
§120902 Zoning Map & 120901 Planning Code v2 Upper Mkt Rezooning.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board met last night and took action on one item that may be of interest to the Planning Commission:2705 Larkin Street– The subject building permit application proposes an approximately 21’ horizontal extension at the rear of the subject building.  The Planning Commission heard 5 DR requests for the subject permit on May 3, 2012.  At this hearing, the DR requestors expressed concern about privacy, light/air and compliance of the project with building code requirements.  The Planning Commission unanimously approved the permit (6-0-1).  The appeal before the Board of Appeals focused on building code issues primarily related to exiting.  The Board found that the project complied with the Building Code and unanimously upheld the permit.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The HPC confirmed its final recommendation for the Twin Peaks Tavern at 401 Castro Street as a local landmark relative to Article 10 of the Planning Code. As you remember in the previous report to you, it is being considered for landmark designation because of its association with LGBT history. The proposed designation will be scheduled for the Board of Supervisors hearing sometime in the near future and we'll keep you abreast of that hearing date as well as we will forward a copy of the final designation report to you once the Board of Supervisors takes action. The Rec Park Department also presented an overview to the Historic Preservation Commission on the proposed rehabilitation and mural conservation project for Coit Tower. This project will require a Certificate of Appropriateness by the HPC at a future date, but the hearing yesterday was just for informational purposes to get the Commission up to speed on the overall project. As the HPC or I'm sorry, as the Planning Department staff and Rec Park prepare for hearing, the HPC did direct staff to address a few concerns that were raised by public testimony at yesterday's hearing. One was in regards to extra security to protect the murals such as a full-time security guard or the installation of railings or other protective measures to protect the murals from visitors to the tower. The HPC also asked for clarification and a priority plan on the extensive list of recommendations that have been prepared by the preservation consultant. Our understanding is that there is over 100 recommendations within the report to ensure for the long-term protection and enjoyment of Coit Tower to visitors and the neighborhood alike. So the HPC has asked for the Rec Park to prioritize those recommendations to get a better understanding of how this project and the rehabilitation of the tower will be addressed in the future.
8.(E. WATTY: (415) 558-6820)
474 NATOMA STREET-Informational presentationon the proposed public art installation associated with the 60-unit affordable housing development by BRIDGE Housing. The public art is proposed to be located alongthe exterior of the eight-story elevator tower, creating an architectural frieze that references a home garden.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of October 11, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Informational – No action