All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2012.0927D(T. WANG: (415) 558-6335)
1144-1146 CASTRO STREET- on the west side of Castro Street between Elizabeth and 23rdstreets; Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 2804 -Mandatory Discretionary Review,pursuant to Planning Code Section 317(e), requiring review of Loss of Residential Units Through Merger, of Building Permit Application No. 2012.07.19.5186, to merge two dwelling units into one dwelling unit, changing the existing two-family dwelling to a single-family dwelling in an RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Staff Analysis: Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            No Discretionary Review and approved as proposed
AYES:              Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Sugaya
NAYES:                        Wu, Borden, Moore
DRA No:           0299
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
4.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of November 15, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Adopted as Corrected
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
Commissioner Moore:
Yesterday, as well as this morning, there was an article in two different papers talking about Fresh and Easy Grocery Stores possibly closing, I am greatly concerned as we just finally found a grocery store chain, moving into areas where it has been difficult for many years. What is it that the City can/would do in order for that not to happen?
Director Rahaim:
It is obviously a private corporate decision, whether they stay open or not, the question that I think is appropriate for the City and perhaps the successor agency depending on the location, is whether other stores could fill those spaces.  Those stores represent an opportunity in what have been called Food Deserts in the City for long time.  I was going to talk to the Office of Economic Development to encourage them to work, if not with Fresh and Easy, at least with other potential stores that could potentially take those spaces and encourage them if they needed.  If Fresh and Easy felt they needed to vacate those spaces to encourage them to sell them or lease them to another operator as opposed to walking away.
Commissioner Moore:
We talked about formula retail, large grocery stores and my observation was that Fresh and Easy and a city other than San Francisco, in other food store starved neighborhoods, I saw certain lack of relevance for the type of food the chain store offered. I am not sure this applies here, the store was quite in line with what the people needed, I would say that, because I said it then, and I say it now, perhaps the Small Business Commission is weighing in on what might be one element to consider.
Commissioner Antonini:
I agree.  Seeing this in the past, with the situation where we were, after the loss, the closure of Petrinis in Stonestown, there were efforts to try to find a grocery store to go in there, eventually we got Trader Joe’s.  I think it is important to go to some of the other local groceries, in particular, and see if they are interested in occupying some of these spaces, if that doesn’t happen, we don’t know, it’s only the initial report.
A couple of other items, meetings that I participated in, met with project sponsor, for item calendared today  421 Vicente Street.  I have been meeting with the representative of the tenants, the property owner, the business owners for the Tacolicious on Vicente and I think those talks are going very well.  Finally, in today’s calendar, I had meetings with the project sponsor and DR requestor, in regards to the project on Toledo, which is at the end of the calendar today.
Commissioner Borden:
There was an interesting article from a publication called “DINK Magazine” (Dink stands for Dual Income No Kids), San Francisco ranked first. I thought it was interesting that there was a correlation between the increase of walkable neighborhoods and amenities as those being more attractive to couples without kids, and talk about their preferences in housing type. I would be interested to look at the data, that they were looking at, because when we are talking housing and type of units, that we need to accommodate a diverse San Francisco, it would be interesting to understand that kind of data, because we often talk about what we want to see developed, and do not know if we necessarily create an incentive for that.
Commissioner Moore:
I would like to make a procedural comment and ask Commission Secretary Jonas, to weigh in. We are receiving an increased amount of email to our seven commissioner’s boxes with no cc to the Commission Secretary, or anybody on staff. That created a short cut of recording comments made as they do not become part of the public record, which they need to be.  In addition to the fact that they are addressed to us individually, and if one of us wants to respond to all, we are creating, to what we refer to a non-allowed internal conversation, rather than having the Commission Secretary or the appropriate staff being the initiators of these emails.  I would like to ask the public to please not send emails to us personally, but send them to the Commission Secretary and staff planners and on top of that, send them within the time frame that is more appropriate to how we work.
Commissioner Antonini:
From my point of view, they should cc to staff.  I do not believe I even have a email address at the Planning Department anymore, if you want to get of hold of me, send it to my private email address, which is my only email, call me at my dental office or my cell phone. Most of you have that, certainly I try make as public as possible. Sometimes when things are sent by regular mail to the Planning Department we won’t receive it for couple weeks, until we get our packets.
Commissioner Moore:
None of the seven Commissioners seated here, has a Department email. The email that the Department uses is the same email that the public uses.  Nothing else is more important than to copy the Department.  That’s the way I prefer them being handled  Mr. Jonas has been very good, like five minutes later, things come.
5.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
6.        Consideration of Adoption: 2013 Planning Commission Hearing Schedule
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:            Adopted as Amended: adding January 31, cancelling March 28 and December 5
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Sugaya
NAYES:            Moore
7.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Just two announcements, one, perhaps Tim was going to raise this, but I just want it to bring it to your attention, a hearing at Land Use next week, on two landmark designations, proposed landmark designation that were approved by the Historic Preservation Commission, one is for Jordan Bar on Third Street, and the other is for Twin Peaks Tavern on the corner of Castro and 17thStreets, both of these were individual buildings and felt to be eligible for landmark designation for a variety of reasons not necessarily, architectural quality, but for the history of what happened in these spaces. The second thing, I wanted to remind you of, kind of let you know is that legislation you passed/proposed for privately owned open public spaces, if you recall, legislation proposed by Supervisor Chiu, will be in effect next Friday, December 14thand on that date we will be unveiling the guide on our website for all 64 of those spaces, that will include photographs and maps of those spaces, and how the public can access those spaces. If you recall, the legislation also strengthened the requirement for signage for those spaces, to make clear to the public that they are available to the public, and again, that goes into effect next December 14th, and the guide will be available on our website the same day.
8.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
oRefine the concept of a cap on how many units may be approved and develop a rigorous reporting structure.
oDo not add a new definition to the Planning Code.
oReplace the max. requirement for interior common space with a minimum requirement.
Supervisor Wiener amended the legislation and incorporated two of your modifications so that the proposed Ordinance now requires a minimum of 10 square feet of common interior open space per unit, and the proposed new common space requirement has been relocated.  The proposed Ordinance still includes a cap of 375 units, and does add a new definition for Efficiency Dwelling Units to the Planning Code.With those amendments, this week the Board passed the Ordinance on FINAL reading.BF 120996
INTRODUCTIONS:
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals met last night. It was actually the first meeting we had five members for quite some time as Commissioner Daryl Honda, who was_____ last week, has his first meeting with Board of Appeals last night, he has a story been an small business owner and currently works in real estate.  The Board did hear two items that might be of interest to the Commission.  The first one was a Letter of Determination that was appeal to the Board for 33 Cambon. This letter of termination, found at the property within 1000 ft. of the Merced High Playground, which contains a recreation facility primarily dedicated to 18 and under, which it makes this location not suitable under the Planning Code for a Medical Cannabis Dispensary.  We first issued this termination on 2010, issued another one early this year for different proposed operator.  They did not appeal either of those two terminations.  They issued third one that they appeal to the Board. The appellant acknowledged that the location was within 1000 ft.  of the playground as _____ was, but argued, because it was a longer walk more than a 1000 ft. and was separated by 19thAvenue, these circumstances made an ideal local for MCD.  We were very clear that the Planning Code says within 1000 ft. is not  longer eligible location.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The HPC unanimously approved the request for Certificate of Appropriateness for Landmark 130 – the former Hibernian Bank. The Certificate of Appropriateness includes seismic light safety, fire and accessible upgrade, for a potential new assembly use for the building, exterior alterations; include the construction of two new penthouse structures, a new elevator override, the dropping of three seals on the side elevation for emergency access.  The HPC approved the project with the conditions of approval outlined by staff and also include one additional condition that the property owner, either restore the existing neon Hibernian Bank sign or remove that and restore the historic Hibernian Bank sign, that is located on the building just behind that neon sign. The HPC also unanimously voted to start the designation process for the 87 properties located within the proposed Duboce Park Landmark District. The Landmark District is bounded by Whaler, Steiner and Scott Streets, and the northern boundaries of Duboce Park.  There were a good number of public testimonies, both in favor and in opposition of the proposed landmark district, but the HPC recognized the Department’s community outreach efforts as well as Supervisor Weiner’s efforts and recent amendments to the Mills Act Program to incentive local designations.  The second hearing in the proposed designations will be before the HPC on December 19 and then it will schedule for the Planning Commission review early next year.  HPC also continued the review of the CEQA appeals amendments, after a long discussion, not only with Department’s staff and the City Attorney, the HPC voted or passed a motion, basically supporting the Planning Commission motion on the item.  Those comments will be forward to the Board of Supervisors, when they take up the matter and will be forward to Supervisor Weiner for consideration.   HPC also, re-delegated the Administrate Certificate of Appropriateness Process to the Planning Department staff.  This delegation allows for staff review and approval of certain scope of work for landmark buildings.  HPC again acknowledged the success of the delegation, the expanded the scope of work that are delegated back to staff, and extended the delegation for 2 additional years.  Finally, HPC had an informational presentation and discussion about social-cultural heritage documentation, this is particularly focus on the documentation occurring within the West Soma Area Plan, and the Japantown Community Effort, HPC discussed development incentive along with the potential documentation and designation of this resources, since they don’t followed the traditional model of local landmark designation, because often associate with intangible events, like festivals and parades.  The Commission addressed the Department current work in Japantown and West Soma and members from both communities were present and discussed the importance of the work, that this Department and the communities are currently engaged. HPC passed a motion of intent recognizing the Planning Department develop a comprehensive approach to incentivsing these cultural resources citywide.  We are going to continue with HPC on these proposal, they would like to bring this proposal to the Planning Commission for your comments on the item and then forward it to the Board of Supervisors.