All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2011.1285C(D. VU: (415) 575-9120)
2641- 2645 LINCOLN WAY- south side between 27thand 28thAvenues; Lot 048 in Assessor’s Block 1723- Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.3(j) and 303 to allow the use of a religious facility (San Fran Dhammaram) within an existing two-family dwelling in an RH-1(D) (Residential, House – One-Family Detached Dwelling) District, and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Paul Wermer
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden,Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18645
4.2012.0205C(A. Putra: (415) 575-9079)
4149 18thSTREET-southeast corner of 18thand Collingwood Streets, Lot 041 in Assessor's Block 2695 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 715.48 and 303 to allow an “other entertainment” use within an existing bar (d.b.a. The Edge) located in the Castro Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden,Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18643
5.2011.0939D(M. WOODS: (415) 558-6315)
1450 POST STREET-north side between Octavia and Gough Streets; Lots 053, 055 and 057 in Assessor’s Block 0688 -Mandatory Discretionary Review, pursuant to Planning Code Section 317, of Building Permit Application Nos. 2011.08.10.2189 and 2011.08.10.2191, proposing to convert the building’s authorized use from 93 units to 92 units by merging two adjacent residential units into a single unit within the RM-4 (Residential, Mixed, High Density) District and 50-X Height and Bulk District.  The subject building is known as “The Carlisle.”
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do not take Discretionary Review and approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of May 24, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden,Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18644
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
6.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I have a couple of items. First of all, I want to report that the Subcommittee between Planning and Historic Preservation met yesterday for selection of regrettably a new commission secretary in the future.  We have agreed upon a schedule of future meetings to set parameters for that process.
On other items: congratulations, of course, to the Giants – a perfect game yesterday, which most of you have already heard is the first perfect game in the 130-year history of the giants, both in New York and San Francisco.
Also, kudos to Lincoln High School, you may have read that it is the only high school in America or anywhere in the world that boasts two separate U.S. Open Golf Champions.
This has been an interesting week. San Francisco was the only City that has four separate others who have won the four parts of the Grand Slam. I believe all four of these grew up in the Sunset in San Francisco and were native sons. of course.  It was a golden age of golf in those days, and having nine golf courses in San Francisco that have very challenging conditions makes this possible.  Also, having a lot of families with children is another thing you need because you have to have people growing up here to be native sons and daughters.
Moving in that direction, I am hopeful we can continue to build towards increasing the number of families with children in San Francisco once again.
7.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Two things to report of interest: One is that last night we had the latest public meeting on the Central Corridor Plan that was held at SPUR. It covered the area between Market and King and Second and Sixth Streets. We presented our proposed plan -- our suggested heights and land use and public realm alternatives as well as a range of alternatives that would be carried into the EIR.
The other piece of good news on the front -- and you will see a memo in your packet today – is that the Mayor has proposed a bill in the funding gap, so we do have the funding to move that forward during the next year or two.
The second thing I wanted to tell you about was that the Oversight Board of the Redevelopment Agency met this week, and we approved our first project instead of just looking at the financial payments that we have to make, which has been almost the entire subject of the previous meetings, it is a 273-unit product that investors would build on the south side of the channel. It is consistent with the zoning guidelines, and the Board unanimously approved the project on Monday morning.
8.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic                                Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE: no planning/land use related item last week.
Tomorrow there will be a special hearing on several items regarding CPMC projects. Tomorrow’s hearing will be one of many and there will be no action taken on Friday). The hearing will be an overview of the project and development agreement, as well as a presentation on job creation. This project was approved by this Commission on April 26th.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
8 Washington.The proposal is to demolish the existing Golden Gateway Swim and Tennis Club and the existing surface parking lot on Seawall 351, and construct a new health club, residential buildings ranging from four to twelve stores in height containing 134 dwelling units, ground-floor retail uses totaling approximately 20,000 square feet, and 382 off-street parking spaces.  In May the Board certified the EIR and upheld the CU authorization by an 8-3 vote. This week, the board considered three items related to 8 Washington:
1.Approval of Public Trust Exchange/Agreement for Sale of Seawall Lot 351 to the project sponsor
2.Ordinance for Zoning Map Amendment to increase allowable height on a portion of the property from the existing 84 feet to 92 feet in one area, and 136 feet in another area
3.Ordinance for General Plan Amendment to reflect the above-described height change in an exhibit within the Northeastern Waterfront Area Plan
* The Budget Analyst's Office presented its analysis of the valuation of public benefits in the project. This analysis estimated the Net Present Value of these benefits to be approximately $96 million, which was approximately $50 million less than the value initially identified by the project sponsor.
* President Chiu proposed four amendments to the Sale Agreement that would have increased the financial obligations of the developer. However, none of these amendments passed.
* The Board approved the three items (8-3 vote), with some revisions to the project including:
·Parking would be reduced by 55 spaces
·The new health club will offer swim lessons to children who are not members of the club, in a program administered through the Recreation and Park Department
Supervisors Avalos, Campos and President Chiu voted against this project.
·Building Code Amendment.This Ordinance would amend the building code to reduce the permitted size of an efficiency unit so that the size is consistent with the state requirements.  Wiener had amended the Ordinance to apply only to new construction rather than existing units. Supervisor Olague requested it to go back to LU committee or to Planning Commission for review. She would like to see more thorough analysis on how this type of units works for San Jose, Seattle, or New York, who lives in them and how much they pay. Also, she would like to learn more about quality of life issues and San Francisco housing needs. Supervisor Kim said she is seeing proposals for such units in her district but they are not affordable by design. Ultimately Wiener asked for a continuance to July 10.
·Warriors Arena Sole Source negotiations: Resolution to not apply the competitive bidding policy set forth in the Administrative Code for the real estate transaction involving Port property for the Warriors Arena, and use the sole source contract. Supervisor Campos asked if this would bind future Board actions and proposed minor modifications to the language. Supervisor Avalos, Kim, and Chiu requested local hire laws to apply to this project. Supervisor Kim proposed an amendment torequireOEWD to obtain public input throughout the project. Supervisor Chiu asked for a commitment to adhere to planning policies for views, public access, & design guidelines.  Ultimately the resolution with amendments was passed unanimously.
·120047 Including Financial Services within Definition of Formula Retail.On Tuesday, the Board held the second reading for this item and voted 8-3 to approve of the proposed legislation.    This Commission recommended approval w/o modification of this Ordinance on April 12, 2012[1].   Supervisors Carmen Chu, Farrell and Elsbernd voted against the Ordinance.With that, the Ordinance was approved on second reading.
INTRODUCTIONS:
120665. Ordinances to amend the San Francisco Planning Code and General Plan regarding the Transit Center District Plan were introduced at the Board. These Ordinances were presented and approved here at the Planning Commission on May 24th.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
There are two cases that were previously heard by the Planning Commission that would be of interest. One was a case at 42 Miramar, which was for the demolition and replacement of a single-family dwelling. Prior to the hearing, the DR requestor indicated that his concerns had been resolved, and he did not attend the hearing - actually no one attended your hearing on this. Following the unanimous approval of this Commission, the project was appealed by a different neighbor, who had not previously made any comments. There were a number of speakers with a number of concerns, and impacts to the feral cat population living in the existing building. Bowing to the lengthy public process and notifications that had already taken place, and the compatibility of the project with the neighborhood, the Board denied the appeal and upheld your approval of the project.
The second case was 3139 Gough, which involved four [DR] requesters. The Commission unanimously approved the project with the addition of the privacy buffer on the roof deck. This was in November. One of the original requesters appealed. The Board granted the appeal and asked that new windows be frosted and a privacy screen be provided along the roof.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No report
9.                                                                                             (S. DENNIS PHILLIPS: (415) 558-6314)
Residential Pipeline- Informational Item- Updating the Commission on the Residential Pipeline Form - A new attachment will be included in all residential cases submitted to the Planning Commission on or after June 14th. This attachment will summarize the City's achievements in meeting housing needs during the present current Housing Element reporting period.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Information Only. No action