All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
1.2011.1232C(A. Hollister: (415) 575-9078)
1401 Polk Street-intersection of Polk and Pine Streets; Lot 004 in Assessor’s Block 0646 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 723.44 and 303, to establish a Restaurant Use(D.B.A.Fresh Spin by Lefty O'Doul's) within the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District and an 80-A Height and Bulk District
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Wu, Antonini,Borden,Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Fong
MOTION:18644
2.2011.1182C(M. Stahlhut: (415) 575-9116)
1745 Market Street-bounded by Market, Valencia, McCoppin, and Hwy 101, Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 3503 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 731.83 and 303 for a proposed wireless telecommunications service facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The facility would consist of up to nine antennas located on the face of an existing commercial and residential building with equipment located inside the building.  The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 5 (Preferred Location Site) within the NCT-3 (Moderate Scale Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and an85-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Wu, Antonini,Borden,Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Fong
MOTION:18649
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
3.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I understand that staff played a softball game at the Moscone Field and I' m just curious as to how that went.  I know it went very well, but I do not recall the final score. The Director can report on that in the Directors' report.
There was an article in yesterday's paper on a new plan that a Market Street Plan is considering expanding or modifying health vehicles with right-hand turns on selected intersections. I would ask the Department to keep us posted because it would be an interesting discussion for us to weigh in on.
Commissioner Antonini:
I have a couple of items. First, the Subcommittee on the Planning Secretary Search met on Tuesday, the 19th.  It was a very successful meeting. I think we came up with a draft job description during that meeting. we will meet again on the 11thof July. A couple of other items:  I have been reading a very interesting book, "The Season of the Witch" and it is written by David Talbot. It deals with the history of San Francisco and from what I've been reading it is extremely accurate. It was a time of much change and turmoil as most of us who are familiar with the history of the City at that time would realize. I would suggest the book as something for everyone to read as a good explanation for where the City is today.  And finally, I would ask if we can adjourn today in honor of the receiver for the 49ers. He could jump higher than anyone else and was able to save a lot of games, as I remember from being a boy and listening to the games on the radio. He was involved in a lot for causes in San Francisco.
Finally, the U.S. Open: I think it was a great success. Congratulations to the City of San Francisco, the Olympic Club and the U.S. Golfing Association. A lot of things were technically across the line in San Mateo County, but it was a great tribute to the particular open, which most of you know the winner -- again, a gentleman named Simpson, but not the one from the 1980's, ended up winning, for the fifth time in a row. He was a little known player that ended up coming from behind to win. The score was over par, which is unusual for a major golf tournament. The course is tough when even the best golfers in the world cannot play under par.  John Madden was asked who he was rooting for and he said he was rooting for the course, and of course, he was rooting for the winner. It is a great testament to the golf course we have in San Francisco.
Commissioner Miguel:
There was a brown bag event this week. They have done small, medium and large projects. This was mega, extra large projects. It took off differently because of the speakers.  The other three [topics] had dealt with specific projects, and this dealt more, and perhaps correctly with mega projects - those vast projects and the philosophy of them. I was very pleased that it did not try to go into the minutia, but the philosophy of how one handles projects that extends over a time frame. I thought it was very well run.  And to Commissioner Moore's comments, I had the pleasure over the last year of chairing the Mayor's Design Advisory Commission on the Market Street Plan. The newspaper articles that have come out are relatively accurate. Nothing has been finalized as of yet. I know it will come before the Commission, at least as an informational item well before things are finalized.
Commissioner Sugaya:
I have also been reading "The Season of the Witch," but I cannot attest to its accuracy because I was in a purple haze most of the time.
The most important thing is to report to you on the softball tournament.The Department played three games and we lost the first game to the S.F. Library. I am told that they were not librarians.  Later we won our game against the Department of Human Resources, and we lost to the Department of Parking and Traffic. The players were there for eight hours. All for a very good cause, for the Children's Workers Fund, the city departments collected several thousand dollars.
4.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
The good news is that the Mayor has proposed a substantial increase to our budget and several new positions for environmental planning and additional positions to support the legislative staff. There are several one-time funds, funding for the completion of a Central Corridor and the Transportation Sustainability Program. I will say that we had our first budget meeting on Monday. The Legislative Analyst is not recommending all of these additions to our budget. We're trying to work that out with his office as of right now. We're going to the Budget Committee again for the second time on Monday morning or they will have to take a vote and hopefully they will continue with these additional positions. I should point out that there are also two positions in the budget that are not general fund budgeted related to the Warriors. The budget will allow us additional positions to work on this. In the interest of time, I don't think I have anything else. I will summarize. In regard to the fire at Pier 29, they brought a construction company on board with demobilizing cranes and removed the damaged area on top of the building and on the roof to reduce the hazard of debris falling.  They had architects and city staff to consult with the Port engineers to make sure that we can maintain as much of the building as possible. They say that it will not impact the America's cup event. The pier itself was not affected, it was just the shed. They had staff there at 9:00 in the morning. The engineers were also there.  Things are going to move fairly quickly to get restoration plans in place. I think we had a fire some years ago at Pier 43 in Fisherman's Wharf. It was not connected.
Also, I believe Sam Jordan was known as the Mayor of Butcher town many years ago.
5.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE: no Monday hearing.
The next land use hearing is scheduled for June 25th, and will focus on healthcare. Subsequent hearings at Land Use will cover housing, transportation & public realm, the City’s Health Service System, and the Controller and Budget Analyst’s Reports. It is expected that the Land Use Committee will not make a recommendation to the full Board since there is a pending appeal of the FEIR.
One July 17th, the full Board will hear the FEIR appeal along with the first reading of the proposed Ordinances.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
8 Washington.The proposal is to demolish the existing Golden Gateway Swim and Tennis Club and the existing surface parking lot on Seawall 351, and construct a new health club, residential buildings ranging from four to twelve stores in height containing 134 dwelling units, ground-floor retail uses totaling approximately 20,000 square feet, and 382 off-street parking spaces.  In May the Board certified the EIR and upheld the CU authorization by an 8-3 vote. This week, the board considered final approval of three items related to 8 Washington:
1.Approval of Public Trust Exchange/Agreement for Sale of Seawall Lot 351 to the project sponsor
2.Ordinance for Zoning Map Amendment to increase allowable height on a portion of the property from the existing 84 feet to 92 feet in one area, and 136 feet in another area
3.Ordinance for General Plan Amendment to reflect the above-described height change in an exhibit within the Northeastern Waterfront Area Plan
Last week the Board had approved the three items (8-3 vote), with some revisions to the project including:
Supervisors Avalos, Campos and President Chiu voted against this project.
This week at hearing Board President Chiu moved to amend the Ordinances to strike language that incorporates by reference related items that are on file in the Planning Department.  This amendment failed 4-7[1].  Supervisor Avalos requested proof that the current property owner had given Mr. Simon Snellgrove permission to seek the planning entitlements and requested a continuance so that such documents could be provided to the Board.  This motion also failed 4-7[2].  After that the 8 Washington ordinances passed 8-3 on final reading[3].
INTRODUCTIONS:
120715Ordinance amending the San Francisco Planning Code Section 186 to allow for reactivation of limited commercial uses in RH, RM, RTO, and RED districts under a conditional use authorization and amending section 231 to allow for greater size and depth from the corner for limited corner commercial uses in RM-3 and RM-4 districts; and making findings, including environmental findings and findings of consistency with the General Plan and Planning Code section 101.1.Chiu, Olague, Campos
120658.Ordinance: 1) amending the San Francisco General Plan by adding the Transit Center District Sub-Area Plan to the Downtown Plan and making various amendments to the Downtown Plan, Urban Design Element, Commerce and Industry Element, Recreation and Open Space Element, and  Transportation Element as part of the establishment of the Transit Center District Plan; and 2) making environmental findings and findings of consistency with the General Plan as proposed for amendment and Planning Code Section 101.1.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals report for last night: there were four cases of some note and giving the hour I'm only going to address one item of interest in particular which is a proposal that you had reviewed in February for 5258 Mission Street. This was the first of the three medical cannabis dispensaries. The elder Mission Merchants and Residents Association had filed a third party D.R.  They were the appellant last night, based on very similar grounds as a review in February. In particular, the urging was that the Board of Appeals applied a similar reasoning that it had used in a previous unrelated case based on your sense of the users and the notion of clustering.  Ultimately, based on being nothing in the law to prevent clustering and the case in question being factually different, the Board had denied the appeal and upheld your approval of the dispensary.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The HPC nominated Sam Jordan’s bar for Article 10 Landmark Designation, as you all know Sam Jordan was a prominent African-American businessmen and entrepreneur leader in the Bayview  and  I believe is the first African-American to run for Mayor in San Francisco.  He owned the bar from 1958 until 1995. I believe his family still owns the bar. They approached us about a year ago to consider designation.  Staff has worked with the family on the research.  The bar was included earlier, last year on the landmark designation work program.  Mr. Jordan's family supported designation along with several members of the public. It was quite a positive-touching-emotional meeting and staff was really taken by support of this project.
The other action that the Preservation Commission took was to construct a new transit station. That station is at the southeast corner of Union Square.  It is designed to use the same materials and blend into the current design of the square. Union Square is rated as a category one significant space in the Downtown Plan.  They took that action as well.
6.2012.0453I(S. YOUNG: (415) 558-6346)
1414 VAN NESS AVENUE- southeast corner of Van Ness Avenue and Austin Street; Lot 009 in Assessor's Block 0667 -Report on Miami Ad School San Francisco's Abbreviated Institutional Master Plan (IMP),pursuant to Planning Code Section 304.5.  Miami Ad School's Abbreviated IMP (San Francisco location) contains information on the nature and history of the institution, the location and development plans within the RC-4 (Residential-Commercial, High Density) Zoning District, the Van Ness Special Use District, Van Ness Automotive Special Use District, and 130-V Height and Bulk District. This is Miami Ad School's second Abbreviated IMP and it provides information for the proposed relocation of the school's San Francisco campus from its current location at 415 Jackson Street to 1414 Van Ness Avenue.  The Abbreviated IMP is available for viewing on the Planning Department’s website (fromwww.sfplanning.orgclick “Publications & Reports” and then “Institutional Master Plans”).  The establishment of the Miami Ad School at 1414 Van Ness Avenue will require Conditional Use authorization, which will be considered at a future Planning Commission hearing.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Informational presentation, no action required.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Meeting held. PH Closed and AIMP was accepted
ABSENT:          Fong