All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
5.2011.0605C(S. Lai: (415) 575-9087)
2199 Market Street-east side between 15thand Sanchez Streets; Lot 036 in Assessor’s Block 3558 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(i) and 703.4 to convert a vacant commercial space into a formula retail use at the ground floor, (d.b.a. Verizon Wireless – Wireless Store/Premium Retailer) within the Upper Market NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and 50-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Michael Williams, Paul Garcia, Rashed Rashed, Andrew Torralba, Erik Honda
ACTION:           Approve with encouragement to Project Sponsor to continue working with the neighborhood group
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18561
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
6.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Sugaya:
I'd like to have staff or whomever consider bringing notification when the department receives legislation from the Board of Supervisors for our consideration. That is not -- what I mean by that is that I assume that the Clerk and the Board transmits legislation to be considered by the Board.It is not brought to the Commission until another date, I'd like to have a memo or something that says this piece of legislation has arrived at the Department.  I mean the ones that will eventually end up on our agenda, not just the inquiries that come from the Board.
Commissioner Miguel:
During the past week, I met with people regarding the Baker Street project before us. Also, at the request of President Fong I have been participating as his designee to the Arts Commission, or more particularly at the Civic Design Review Committee. We just finished work on the two large bathrooms in the Mission District, Dolores Park. It is amazing that being a civic building it doesn't come to us. The Arts Commission is doing everything that the Planning Department would normally do, and I think they do a relatively good job. I think a little more involvement with the Department would ease things along. I will work on that in the next month or so.
7.Director’s Announcements
None
8.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
The changes require that the Ordinance will be heard again, next Monday at Committee.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
§EN Legitimization extension -This Ordinance was introduced by Supervisor Cohen. It would extend the period of time which property owners of nonconforming uses in the Eastern Neighborhoods, who are operating without proper permits, can submit applications to legalize their uses. You considered this Ordinance on February 23. At that time you requested 2 modifications:
In response to the Commission’s request, Supervisor Cohen modified the Ordinance per your request but extended the deadline slightly longer to