All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2012.0525C(M. Smith: (415) 558-6322)
1250 OCEAN AVENUE-north side of the street between Phelan and Plymouth Avenues, Lot 003 in Assessor's Block 3180 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 703.3 and 303 to establish a 1,615 square-foot, formula retail, limited-restaurant (d.b.a. “Yogurtland”) in the ground floor commercial space of a newly constructed mixed-use building within the Ocean Avenue Neighborhood Commercial Transit District and a 55-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Wu, Antonini,Borden, Miguel, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Fong
MOTION:18658
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
3.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Miguel:
I along with Commissioners Sugaya and Moore, have been reading the “The Witches ___” and in my mind -- it is told through a series of sensational events. It was interesting to me because some of the criminal defense attorneys were customers of mine and my business at one time or another, and their family dated members of my family. I could tell it was Easter when Cecil Williams came in. It was interesting to find so many San Francisco characters, I guess is the correct term, mentioned in the book and if one uses as I say this series of more or less sensational events starting in the 40's, it is decent reading.
Linda, I would like to propose to close the hearing today in memory of Cheryl Arnold.  There was a memorial service last night. She passed away 10 days ago. She was a real community activist in the Outer Richmond District. The area is basically around Ocean Beach and Sutro Heights. She and her husband were extremely active in those areas as well as other areas of the City. She was a very well respected organist and choir director in a number of organizations in San Francisco over the years.  Altogether a nice and totally dependable person. When she gave testimony at the Board of Supervisors and before the Planning Commission over many years, the only way to describe her was a very intense lady. She was wonderful. I would also like to thank [Inaudible] for his article in today's paper. Though some of you may not know but this will basically be my last meeting at the Commission. The Rules Committee met yesterday. It is my understanding their recommendations will be for the Board of Supervisors [to confirm nominations] next Tuesday and I presume those who make it through the Board will be installed or sworn in prior to next Thursday's meeting. I would like to say a little goodbye. It has been a great five years.  That combined with 20 plus [years] on the other side of the podium gave me a lot of insight into this room. A few individual comments because I have gotten in five years close to a number of people, not personally close, but close more in a business, or in a camaraderie sense. Kathryn Moore: she has that long range, big picture look that many people in her field do not have. Bill Sugaya’s sense of humor is great and he has taught me about preservation, since I only had an inkling of it before. When I glanced over to my right and I see bill, his glasses go like this [up], and his eyes go down on the paper like that, I know he spotted something in the plan that I missed. Every time it works. Mike Antonini is that type of individual who is essential in sticking to a sense of principle. He does not vary from them. He firmly believes in them. He is able to express that well which is excellent. We have disagreed at times, Mike can disagree with someone as the gentleman he is and that does not happen with everyone.  There have been, when I was on the other side of the podium, planning commissioners who I don' t know how they did not get into fistfights - Linda has seen this over the years. Rodney was not here. I have only known him a short time. Rodney has shown a concerned and practical leadership. He has this obvious love of San Francisco, multigenerational family deeply involved in the City. He brings to the Commission something that I had been the only one who had been involved in the retail field with his business experience. It is sort of retail, sort of entertainment, and very neighborhoodly; and that has been an excellent view point. Cindy, it has been a pleasure working with you the short time that we have. You have many experiences in the minority communities I certainly have not had involving a lot of tenants' rights issues and you bring a much younger view point. Gwyneth, you have a different demographic than the rest of the Commission. I am not referring to race. What I am referring to is the fact that you are of the new demographic that is coming into San Francisco. your age and your experience in the tech industry gives you a different viewpoint closer to what is building the business of San Francisco now, and so I think you understand it in a deeper sense and the rest of us are learning to catch up with that. Regarding the Commission as a whole, it has been a pleasure. People asked me at one time when I was President how was it sitting in between Christina Olague and Mike Antonini. Christina was Green Party and Mike, Republican Party. It did not matter. We got along. John, you came to the Department just a little while before I came on the Commission. Actually, you think things through with the staff, with the Commission, and with everything as it goes through the Department. This, as you found out even though you were told ahead of time, a very difficult City. It is probably much more so than you presumed. But you bring a regional viewpoint and I know you have been working hard on the concept of actually getting the Bay Area Regions to even talk to each other - something that has not happened in the last century, other than in emergencies. The City Attorney's staff has been very instructive to me, the intelligence of the discussions, with working things out, and keeping it on a professional basis. That has been a pleasure for a long time. I had the pleasure of working with City Attorney staff again when I was a neighborhood activist on a number of things affecting San Francisco and that has carried through all the way. I will mention that I have had the pleasure of working with Rich Hillis who will replace me, and I think he will be an excellent member for this Commission. He has the background, the experience, and the knowledge of the City absolutely. And sort of the best for last: Linda, we know you are retiring as the Commission Secretary, and coming on to something such as this Commission, which everyone told me in the beginning, and I learned to find out, is the [most] difficult of the City Commission's and probably the most hard-working as well. Not just for the number of meetings but everything that goes on outside the meetings - dealing with land use attorneys and developers and architects and the neighborhoods and the public. We probably get a bigger video audience than anyone other than the Board of Supervisors and sometimes more than they do. The only equivalent I can think of is that you have a position that is somewhat like the Clerk of the Board. Because no other Commission secretary can even start to have the work you do. You have been a guide to me. You have always shown me who I can talk to, where to go, paved the way, and have done so in both the professional and, this is not disrespectful, nearly motherly manner. You deal with people that way. It is very nice. The Mayor has asked me to continue to Chair his Advisory Committee on the rebuilding of Market Street. We will finish our work probably by the end of the year or into the spring for initial reports, so I am back out there. And I guess just in case anyone is listening, a parting words to the architects, the neighborhood activists, and the press people, they have all been cooperative. They get bad press sometimes. We do not always get along. They can sometimes be very combative; not care for criticism; don’t like the way we vote or the way we handle things; but for the vast majority, I have found them to be cooperative; to be willing to listen; willing to take advice; and willing to, and I do not mean negotiate, but actually talk about something - and that is something I was not sure of in the beginning and I have been very pleased with.
CommissionerAntonini:
It is [has been] an absolute pleasure working with Commissioner Miguel over the last 5 years, He brought many great things to the Commission, most notably for me was his historical prospective and particularly in regard to the neighborhoods of San Francisco, Ultimately he is always very prepared, and of course, very well spoken, and he dealt with people extremely well.  We will miss him greatly, He will be involved with some very important affairs that are coming up in the near future.
I also want to mention that I have been reading The Season of the Witch and it is extremely interesting, Although I still have to finish the book because since my wife found it, she grabbed it away from me, it is a period when I arrived in San Francisco, I’ve lived all my life in the Bay Area, but I first moved to San Francisco in 1968 and this book deals with a period between 1967-82 and I remembered it well – but it has a lot of prospectives [that are valuable for] when you are busy starting a business and raising a family. In the meantime I did read an interesting book that may be out of print. It was printed in 1969 and was written by an author by the name Williams and is about David Broderick, who was one of the first US Senators in California, and a San Franciscan.  The reason why this is significant is that it deals with a period 1850-59. In addition to being a profile of him, it was an informative period, and that I think is very important reading. It was during the time that California was considered to be split in two States – one free and one slave.  Fortunately because of Mr. Broderick and the efforts of others, it did not happen. The other thing that happened during that time was the birth of political parties.  I think anybody that is interested in California and particularly San Francisco, should read it.
Finally, I was briefly at the Commission Secretary Search Subcommittee meeting, I was before the Rules Committee regarding my reappointment to Planning for most of the [Sub-committee] meeting and did not get there until the very end of the meeting. I think it is more proper that I allow Commissioners Moore and Borden to report the results of that meeting. We are making progress.
Commissioner Moore:
Commissioner Miguel, he says what needs to be said. You spoke with experience. I always respected and appreciate how you handle your arguments. You will be sorely missed.
We are moving smoothly forward on the job description for the Commission Secretary position and will be reporting to both Commissions in detail by next Thursday.
There is one other thing, which is really what I wanted to talk about and my concern about the fire at Hunter's Point. That is a project that we have spent a lot of time and attention on. While I do not want to go into what is being found out, or why it happened, I would be interested to hear how this project will continue to stay on track. There was a major setback with building three. We have the challenging task of integrating and building together housing for sale. I would be very much interested to hear us being updated on how this project is still achieving its mission in time and on schedule.
Commissioner Borden:
Commissioner Miguel has been President of this commission as well. He has been a fair person on this Commission. We will Miss him. I always loved your historical context for the spaces and the places. You have a long history with the evolution of San Francisco that talks a lot about the growth of the City and how it has evolved in a positive way. I want to thank you for all that you taught me. It has been a true pleasure to call you a colleague.
I was going to follow-up on what Commissioner Moore said. Next week, we'll be bringing you the job description that we finalized for the commission secretary.  We hope we will have your positive support of that.
Commissioner Sugaya:   I think Ron has a way of saying things that come across so that people understand his comments and he speaks for the Commission. We often have difficult hearings. People are not always kind and nice to each other, or sometimes even to the Commission. Ron has a way of saying things that come across very nicely to everyone that is concerned. That is quite in contrast to me. I did not learn as much as I should from Commissioner Miguel. If I had, I guess I would not have gotten messages from the Supervisors asking me to apologize. [Laughter] I [probably should have taken my glasses off more and looked a little bit more closely at what had been submitted.
Commissioner Wu:
Thank you Ron. You were president when I was appointed to this Commission and it was your guidance that helped me through both the basics and the nuances of this Commission. So, I very much want to thank you for that and look forward to seeing you on the other side and your leadership in this city.
4.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
We have shared our 10 years together, it has been an incredible help to me and support to have you on the Commission; to learn from you; to learn about the City from you. I want to express my thanks. Your commitment to the Commission and this Department says ‘thank you’ so much. I am hopeful that we will be seeing you quite frequently.
Two other things I wanted to report to the Commission: The Budget Committee of the Board did approve our entire budget as was proposed by both you and the additions proposed by the Mayor. My understanding is that the Budget Committee met until 5:00 a.m. in the morning on the day they approved the budget. I am very pleased and gratified to say they did approve all the additional resources for the Department that the Mayor had proposed in the budget. We will be doing a number of hiring’s as a result of that and will be able to tackle some of the work that has been identified in the work plan. I just received notes regarding the AT&tT case. The litigation, the Superior Court upheld the City's environmental review for those AT&T light boxes. I do not have all decisions of the court case. I have not had a chance to read it yet, but my understanding is the court did affirm the cities and department EIR of that project. That happened as of yesterday or early this morning. We can get you the copies of that court decision in your packets. With that, that concludes my report.
5.Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE: no Monday hearing.
CPMC:This past Monday, 7/9/12, there was a hearing at the Land Use Committee on CPMC’s Long Range Development Plan Project. The hearing was the third of four at the Land Use Committee, which will be followed by two hearings at the full Board. Although Monday’s hearing was originally scheduled to discuss the transportation and public realm components of the Development Agreement, the Committee requested a second hearing on the healthcare provisions of the Development Agreement – specifically the commitment to operate St. Luke’s for 20 years – due to the recent concern by members of the Board about CPMC’s ability to close St. Luke’s under the “out clause” provision of the Development Agreement. Staff coupled this second hearing on healthcare with a presentation on the DA provisions affecting the City’s Health Service System. President Chiu and Supervisor Kim joined the Committee for portions of the 3 ½ -hour hearing. During the presentation, staff from OEWD reiterated to the Committee that based on the recent information provided to the City, the Mayor is no longer willing to support the 1% operating margin “out clause” previously negotiated. The Mayor has expressed his desire for a 20 year operating commitment for St. Luke’s, withno out clauserelated to CPMC’s financial performance.The Mayor’s staff did reiterate that his office is ready to negotiate on this topic, but simply cannot support the deal as previously negotiated. The Board commended the Mayor and his staff on taking this position.
The City’s presentation continued with an overview from the Department of Public Health regarding the other healthcare provisions in the Development Agreement, specifically the provisions that ensure access to CPMC for Medi-Cal and charity care patients, consistent with the changing healthcare environment.
After DPH’s presentation, Catherine Dodd, Director of the City’s Health Service System (HSS), provided an overview of the DA provisions that aim to limit the degree to which CPMC can increase the cost of hospitals services charged to the City for its employees’ and retirees’ health plans. In simple terms, the DA aims to achieve two goals as it relates to HSS: 1) to provide predictability for what CPMC charges the City (HSS) over the term of the DA; and 2) to ensure that the City (HSS) pays only its fair share of the cost of the new hospital project passed through to CPMC’s rate payers.
The Supervisors were very interested in CPMC’s pricing and how their pricing directly affects the City’s healthcare costs and the healthcare costs for private sector employers throughout the City.
The next land use hearing is scheduled for July 16th, and will focus on transportation and public realm, as well as the Controller and Budget Analyst’s Reports. It is expected that the Land Use Committee will forward the items to the full Board without recommendation, since there is a pending appeal of the FEIR. However, OEWD staff stated at Monday’s hearing that they would support a continuance beyond the 17thif the St. Luke’s Operating Commitment issue remained unresolved.
On July 17th, the full Board is scheduled to hear the FEIR appeal along with the first reading of the proposed Ordinances.
BOARD OF APPEALS:No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No Report