All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be
        routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call
        vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items
        unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which
        event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a
        separate item at this or a future hearing
1.2011.1172C(S. YOUNG: (415) 558-6346)
626 CLEMENT STREET- north side
        of Clement Street between 7th and 8th Avenues; Lot 022 in Assessor's Block 1426
        -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to pursuant to
        Sections178(e)(2) and 303 of the Planning Code to modify the conditions of a prior
        Conditional Use authorization under Motion No. 18282 (Case No. 2010.0793C) to
        allow the expansion of a full-service restaurant use (d.b.a. Volar Roman House)within an approximately 1,800 square-foot karaoke lounge (d.b.a. Volar Karaoke)
        on the ground floor of a two-story mixed-use building within the Inner Clement
        Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk
        District. The expansion will involve converting the approximately 300
        square-foot vacant ground floor commercial space located at the front of the
        building (previously occupied by a retail store d.b.a. D&B Wireless) into a new
        dining area for the existing full-service restaurant use.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya, Wu
MOTION:18544
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
2.        
        Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements. 
        Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or
        inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas. 
        At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a
        Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda
        of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I wanted to comment on
        what I thought was an excellent piece in the "The Examiner" on Sunday by
        Supervisor Weiner.  It speaks about an issue we have discussed at great length –
        not having a very large middle- income population in San Francisco. He goes
        through a very good analysis, showing that, that group has shrunk significantly
        from 1990 through 2010, and it was not even that large in 1990. This is the core
        of most cities where you have families with children, and those who become most
        involved because they care for their children, and, you know, they build from
        generation to generation. You certainly see a big shift from the San Francisco
        of the 1950's when we had a huge middle-class and we don’t any more. Whether you
        define that as the 80th percentile to 120th, it is small no matter how you cut
        it. That whole income group is not there. What he did, that was quite good, was
        look at this. This is a chicken and egg question often. What comes first is that
        we do not have a middle-class and therefore we do not have jobs for the middle
        class, or is it that the jobs are not here and therefore, we do not have a
        middle-class. These people in that income group need these jobs. Many
        businesses, when surveyed about why they moved out of San Francisco, have said
        that the population mostly lived in other places. Typically, people who would
        service these so-called back-office operations that typically offer and are
        considered white-collar and whatever definition you want to use have housing
        that is appropriate for their needs. The price is always something that people
        look at, but what is also important is access to neighborhood schools, and that
        is something that has been discussed a lot. Also the size of the home, people
        with families are often looking for individual homes that will have enough
        bedrooms and parking for the cars that they inevitably will have. I think the
        Supervisor is right on target when he says that if we build this kind of housing
        or make it possible, families will acquire the existing housing that suits their
        needs, then we will attract this group back to San Francisco. It was a very good
        editorial. With that in mind, I took a ride down to Brisbane yesterday and saw
        an area that is doing it right. They built individual almost de-attached homes,
        with clearly single-family homes with side by side parking. Very pleasant, and
        where possible, I think that is something we have to look at in San Francisco.
        Where we will find the land is the question.  But I think there might be sites
        where this is possible.  We have to encourage production of this kind of housing
        wherever possible, so I appreciated that editorial piece that the Supervisor has
        done. He is involved with a group that is studying this. There was a hearing on
        Monday which regrettably I was not able to attend, but I think it is a subject
        we need to focus on because the core of any city is its middle income families,
        and we have to find a way to be able to address that shortage.
Commissioner Borden:
I want to be the first
        among the chorus' of voices to welcome our new commissioner. We are excited to
        serve with you and have a full Commission again. I know there will be a lot of
        fun times ahead. I know people think it is crazy to say it is fun, but we would
        not serve on this commission if we did not believe it. I was fortunate along
        with Commissioner Wu last night to attend the Green Connection Kickoff, it is an
        initiative funded through a grant partnership among various city agencies as
        well as non-profits, to connect people to green spaces. It is shocking when you
        look at this northeastern part of the City. It is an initiative to look at the
        existing green spaces, how to create green spaces, how to connect people to the
        home, their communities how we look at it, and how we connect lots of people
        there.  Also, there were maps and places where people could make suggestions. I'
        m really excited about the initiative because there will be a lot of
        unconditional workshops with walking tours and biking tours to kind of explore
        these areas. I think it is very exciting that we have an opportunity to look at
        something leading ahead in this way.  We often do not have funding to do these
        things. I want to say congratulations to the partners of that.
Commissioner Sugaya:
I cannot remember where I
        got this, but I did send a copy to staff, but it is a workshop being held in
        Emeryville on cell towers on March 8 from 7:00 to 9:00 in the evening. The topic
        seemed to be the kind of things that we seem to be facing every time we have
        cell antennas on our agenda. I know nothing about the Center for Municipal
        Solutions.  I'm not sure if it is worth anybody going, like staff or not.  But
        anyway, I will pass this along. They have some fairly enticing questions in
        here.
Commissioner Moore:
Commissioners for those
        who were not able to make it Tuesday, City Hall looked absolutely spectacular.
        Whoever organized it should get big kudos. It looked fantastic. In today's "New
        York Times," there is an article which I strongly recommend for everybody to
        read. We have been asking ourselves about the impact on foreclosures in San
        Francisco, which is an issue difficult to put your finger on. The article speaks
        about extensive foreclosures defining San Francisco.  Officials suggest how
        pervasive irregularities may be across the Nation, that it actually speaks about
        the study that was done that discovered large amounts of irregularities in this
        City and County. I suggest everybody read it. It says a lot, and there is
        actually quite a bit to be concerned about.
President Miguel:
Some of that article was
        in today's "Examiner" as well. Other than that, I have been having a few
        meetings with people regarding the Masonic Auditorium issue, and there may even
        be hope of a solution. We will see.
Commissioner Antonini:
I also had some meetings.
        I would like to, of course, welcome Commissioner Wu aboard. But Cresmont
        Neighborhood Association -- that may not be the correct term, but I did meet
        with them and there is a project coming up in that area, there were about 20
        neighbors there on Monday night. It was very interesting. We will be hearing
        about that as we look forward. Also, I talked with the Mayor's office and the
        project sponsors in regards to California Pacific and where we are on that. I'm
        trying to be proactive on that one as well as anything else when looking at our
        future calendar.
3.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I would also like to on behalf of the Department welcome Commissioner Wu to the
        Planning Commission.  We look forward to working with you very much. I did want
        to report quickly on the meeting last night that Commissioner Borden mentioned.
        I want to thank both Commissioner Borden and Wu for coming. It was a very
        interesting event. Because of the location on Market Street, I think, and the
        timing of the event to come immediately after work, and a lot of people who came
        were people I did not recognize from previous events, so it was a nice variety
        of people. In a nutshell, the Green Connections Study is funded by the Strategic
        Growth Counsel at the State, which is a consortium of State Departments. It is a
        two-year grant. The first is meant to look at a city wide network of green
        connections that would connect open spaces and the city's water. Not only for
        people to use, but for wildlife. The second phase of the grant will be to take
        six corridors in six underserved neighborhoods, which are generally in the
        southeast quadrant of the City, and design those to a higher level of detail so
        that we can then seek funding to actually make improvements that are not
        exclusively but primarily city streets. The idea is to pick the most logical
        ones and the most buildable ones, if you will, to turn into these kinds of green
        corridors. It is an interesting process, and we are fortunate to get this
        grant.  It is something that grew out of the Open Space Element work and was
        identified as a next phase of work for city-wide open space. I did want to
        mention briefly that regarding the cell tower issue, we have been in discussions
        with the Department of Public Health and the Department of Technology, they are
        being cooperative in helping us think through their sides of this issue, namely
        the public health issues and the capacity and coverage issues and we are
        continuing to work with them on beefing up that side of the process, if you
        will, so that they can do the same kind of analysis.  We will hopefully be
        coming back in the next couple of months and propose changes to the process.
        Finally, with regard to the successor agencies and the Redevelopment Commission,
        there is not a lot to report except that the first meeting of the oversight
        board is scheduled for the first Tuesday in March on the 6th.  One of the orders
        of business that I' m hoping we will address is the name of this entity. We are
        currently called the Oversight Board of the Successor Agency of the Former
        Redevelopment Agency, which is a real mouthful. There is not a good acronym. I'm
        hoping we will come up with some more pitchy name for the organization at that
        point as well.
4.         Review
        of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and
        Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·Chinatown Transit Station Special Use District.The Ordinances would allow the demolition of the existing two-story mixed-use
        building without the prior review and approval of a replacement building. The
        building contains 18 residential dwelling-units located above 8 ground floor
        businesses.  This Commission approved the Ordinances on Jan 26.This week
        the legislative sponsor amended the SUD to ensure that the MOU for relocating
        tenants of this property conforms with the Central Subway’s Relocation Impact
        Study and Last Resort Housing Plan, adopted by the Board in 2010.  The item was
        then recommended for approval to the Board. On Tuesday the Full Board approved
        the Ordinance on First read.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·Glen Park Community Plan Ordinances
        Amending the General Plan, Planning Code & Zoning Map.The culminating approvals of a 10 year community planning effort were heard by
        the LU committee this week.  The Commission considered these Ordinances and
        recommended approval on