All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2012.0453C(S. YOUNG: (415) 558-6346)
1414 VAN NESS AVENUE- southeast corner of Austin Street and Van Ness Avenue, Lot 009 in Assessor’s Block 0667 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.3(i) and 303 to allow the change of use of the existing ground floor retail space to an institutional use to allow for the proposed relocation of Miami Ad School’s San Francisco campus from its current location at 415 Jackson Street to 1414 Van Ness Avenue.  The project site is located within the RC-4 (Residential-Commercial, High Density) District and 130-V Height and Bulk District.  The project site is also located within the Van Ness Special Use District and Van Ness Automotive Use District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18711
3.2012.0610C(A. PUTRA: (415) 575-9079)
499 CASTRO STREET (A.K.A. 4092-4096 18THSTREET)- northeast corner of Castro and 18thStreets; Lot 057 in Assessor’s Block 3582 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 715.44, and 303 to allow the change of use of an existing ground floor commercial space from a limited-restaurant to a restaurant (d.b.a. KPOP Restaurant) within the Castro Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District, and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18710
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
4.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Couple items in the news: the first one was in today's San Francisco Chronicle – “Francisco for the Top City,” I guess in doing business, which comes as a surprise to many commenters and somewhat as a surprise to me. We will certainly take it. It might be based in part on what was written in another article by Carl Nulty on Sunday when he talked about the sales force and good things we are seeing. However it was entitled, ignoring a beautiful and ugly city is crazy. I agree with Carl. I believe he's made good statements. His comments, not mine: he talked about some of the people on the street. He felt they weren't just foreclosed homeowners but people who have long-term serious problems. Yet everybody ignores this, and has for decades. I think he makes good points and ends his article by saying we pretend this doesn't exist. San Francisco needs a psychiatrist, which is a well-written article. There is a positive note, however.
There is legislation introduced and I believe passed on first reading regarding [van] parked vehicles overnight. Many are housing unit we don't deal with. We deal with mergers, decks, and a bunch of things that are important. We deal nothing with a lot of the housing that is not housing that comes under the auspices of houses within houses. I think it is time this is dealt with. I applaud Supervisors Carmen Chu and Malia Cohen who authorized this legislation. It is about time. I applaud Bevin Dufty who testified he felt there was room at shelters, if not we should provide for shelters. Civilized societies need rules. If we didn't everybody would be crashing into each other. We don't seem to have rules about habitation in a lot of San Francisco. I think we need more of that in the future. I'm happy to see that. I think that it is a step in the right direction that somebody is actually stepping up to the plate and addressing one of these concerns. Hopefully we will see more of that.
Commissioner Borden:
First, I want to mention again that Urban Solutions will have two blocks of art. They will have all the businesses along the corridor of Sixth Street between Market and Howard. We will have art installations inside, ranging from laundry mats and small stores. Then there is a little program and a great studio right there. So it is 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. Friday of this week. If you can make it by tomorrow, that would be great. I also wanted to recognize the Planning Department, which I know got an award for their Property Information Map. I think that is incredible. I know because I personally use that a lot as well. It makes me sound smarter when people ask me questions, because I know it is there. The final question I have is regarding the blight ordinance and properties that have entitlements, where there might be trash. Is that a DPW issue? Is that a Planning Commission approval issue? I know that sometimes when properties are not …; when they have been entitled but there is no building permits pulled yet and there are issues with trash and debris and a blight ordinance; I don't know how the two work together, if at all.
Commissioner Sugaya:
There was something in the paper with respect to the PUC leasing 16 spaces in the City garage. Could we get a little more information? I don't know if that is for employee spaces or somehow connected with you are doing business with the PUC so you can park in one of their spaces. I don't know. It seems to go against the transit-first policy. It hinted that Reck Park was losing money because of the parking situation in various …; I guess because it is under Civic Center park. But that also is kind of an ironic thing because we are trying to be transit-first, which means Rec Park shouldn't be making money off parking, or something like that.
Commissioner Moore:
There was an interesting article the other day about UCSF growing in a manner that they might bump up against the cap in their Mission Bay area, but also as it relates to the previous master plan protections. There are two aspects of this article: One, the Master Plan is exemplary to the City Planning Department. We need to understand what institutions try to do, project what it will do, how it operates, how it groups buildings, or deals with transportation.  The second aspect of this particular article is interesting to me because will it require potentially revisiting Mission Bay. I would be very curious to see the Director and the Department keep us appraised or updated on how that might occur, so it is a lesson for all of us in terms of other institutions. But I think this particular case is a very positive one by which the Department early on knows what to be prepared for. So I think we could use that to start developing language and some type of idea of what a Master Plan needs to be.
Linda Avery:
If I can just have a moment, hopefully I won't break down with this. I announced at the beginning of the year that I would retire. But I promised I would stay until we found a replacement for me. Unfortunately that has taken a long time, much longer than I anticipated. With some family issues that have come up recently, I have set my date. My last day in the office will be October 31st, and I just want to thank you all and wish you the best. I'm here if you need me but I do have to leave after the 31st.