All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2012.1495C(A. PUTRA: (415) 575-9079)
65 CAMBON DRIVE- on the east side between Font Boulevard and 19thAvenue; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 7324 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 713.61 to allow an automobile sales or rental use (d.b.a. Enterprise Rent-A-Car) providing vehicle rentals within a NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial, Shopping Center) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 14, 2013)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18833
4.2012.1551C(D. VU: (415) 575-9120)
2238-2240 MARKET STREET- north side between Noe and Sanchez Streets; Lots 005 and 006 in Assessor’s Block 3560 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 733.56, to allow automobile parking on a portion of the accessory parking for an existing mortuary(d.b.a. Sullivan’s Funeral Home) in the Upper Market NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District, and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18834
5.2010.0272DD(M. SMITH: (415) 558-6322)
1235 40THAVENUE- west sidebetween Lincoln Way and Irving Street, Lot 006 in Assessor's Block 1710 -Requests for Discretionary ReviewofBuilding Permit Application No.2009.04.02.5465proposing the demolition of the detached garage structure at the front of the lot and the new construction of a three-story accessory building with a garage at the front of the lot, located within a RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 14, 2013)
Preliminary Recommendation:  Adopt motion of intent to take DR and approve the project.
NOTE: On March 14, 2013, following public testimony, the Commission adopted a Motion of Intent to Take DR and Approve the Project, moving the kitchen from the rear cottage to the new building proposed for the front of the subject property; and Continued the item to the April 4, 2013 Consent Calendar, to allow a DR Action memo to be drafted with appropriate findings by a vote +6 -0  (Commissioner Borden was absent).
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: After being pulled off of Consent:  Took DR and Approved the Project with Modifications
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
DRA No:           0317
6.2012.1413C(E. WATTY: (415) 558-6620)
1096 UNION STREET- northeast corner of Union and Leavenworth Streets; Lot 009 in Assessor’s Block 0098 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 182, 303, and 722.43, to allow a change of use from a Retail Grocery Store (d.b.a Top O’ The Hill Market) to a Limited-Restaurant (d.b.a La Paloma Café). The property is located within a RM-2 (Residential, Mixed: Moderate-Density) Zoning District, and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Gloria White, Susan Willey, Joseph Olmerand
ACTION: After being pulled off of Consent: Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18839
7.2012.1315T(S. HAYWARD: (415) 558-6372)
AMENDMENTS TO THE PLANNING CODE, ADDING NEW SECTION 102.36.1 TO ESTABLISH AN ANNUAL MONITORING REQUIREMENT FOR STUDENT HOUSING CONVERSIONS [BOARD FILE NO. 12-0883]- Ordinance introduced by Supervisor Kim adding Planning Code Section 102.36.1 to establish an annual monitoring program for Student Housing conversions;and adopting findings, including environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.
Preliminary Recommendation:Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 7, 2013)
NOTE: On November 29, 2012, following public testimony, the Commission Continued the matter to January 24, 2013 by a vote of +6 -1.  On January 24, 2013 the Commission Continued the matter to March 7, 2013, by a vote of +5 -0.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:18835
8.2011.0397M(K. HADDADAN: (415) 575-9068)
INTENTION TO INITIATE GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS FROM THE 2009 BICYCLE PLAN-Pursuant to Planning Code Section 302, the Planning Commission will consider a Resolution of Intention to initiate amendments to the Planning Code. These General Plan Amendments were originally recommended by the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors for the Board’s approval on June 25, 2009 in Resolution 17914.  On June 25, 2009 (in Resolution 17912), the Planning Commission certified an environmental impact report (EIR) prepared for the 2009 Bicycle Plan, and (in Resolution 17913), adopted findings pursuant to CEQA, including a mitigation monitoring and reporting program. On January 14, 2013, the California Court of Appeal found that the 2009 Bicycle Plan EIR complied with CEQA but that the findings adopted pursuant to the CEQA in connection with the General Plan Amendments did not adequately set forth the reasons for rejecting as infeasible the alternatives identified in the EIR, and did not adequately discuss several significant environmental impacts that cannot be mitigated.  This action therefore initiates the re-adoption of the previously adopted General Plan Amendments, including changes to the Transportation Element and the Downtown Area Plan of the General Plan, such that the General Plan Amendments may be adopted with modified findings.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution of Intent to Initiate and schedule a public hearing to consider the Amendments
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted a Resolution of Intent to Initiate
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:18836
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes- Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
9.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for March 14, 2013
·Draft Minutes for March 21, 2013
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
10.        Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I wanted to thank the Director and staff for this excellent report. Although, I have only glimpsed at it, it looks very attractive and I look forward to studying it in more detail. The second point, is for those people who are interested in tracking code violations. There is, apparently, an app out now, a free app, which you can put on your cellphone, which is UP2 Code. The website was officially launched on Monday and it helps facilitate that you not just call 311, but immediately key yourself electronically or digitally into where the code violation is. This was published in the Examiner on April 1st, and unless it's a Fool’s Day joke, which I don't know. It is quite possible to do it this way. I will pass this printout on to you, so you can follow up. Zoning Administrator, Sanchez will be very interested seeing his work greatly alleviated.
Commissioner Antonini:
I was fortunate to be able to attend a presentation last night that was held at Pier 28 IDEO. I thought it was very well done. What it involved was a panel discussion and it brought together some members of the tech community, the Small Business Owners Association and it was also under the auspices of City.Com and Supervisor Ferrell moderated the group. There was a very good discussion about the role between some of the newer companies in San Francisco and small businesses, in general, and also the City family and what can be done to make things move more smoothly and to help each other promote their businesses and everyone really liked it. In fact, the event was quickly sold out once it was announced and I think they plan to do some more in the future. I think it's really a step in the right direction. A lot of times, issues we have are easily worked out when people talk to each other and sometimes there is not enough dialogue going on. I'm not saying any of these groups had any issues, but it was just a good forum to bring out the kinds of things they both share and it's the beginning of something hopefully that could be very productive for the City.
Commissioner Sugaya:
I wasn't going to bring this up under Commissioner Comment, but might as well. I have been having some meetings with representatives from Japantown with respect to the JCHS, Japanese Community …whatever it’s called, and I think one of the questions that has come up and this also directed to the City Attorney’s Office, is in what form does the Commission actually endorse or adopt or recognize or whatever the term is since this is not a traditional land use plan and more of an economic and community development strategy. So, I think there are some questions as to what action the Commission and the Historic Preservation Commission if applicable would take on the document itself. And I think there were questions with respect to if it were recognized in some fashion and I don't know if that's the right word, what kind of policy implications would there be back on the Planning Commission when there were land use decisions to be made in Japantown and how does this document influence or form as the basis for decision making and that kind of question. So, I just put that out there. I think maybe if staff and the City of Attorney’s Office could mull that over then we might have a meeting or something at some point. Thank you.
11.        Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I wanted to just follow-up on some of your recent requests for information. You had asked about the 19th Avenue study, I believe we sent a note about that and the status, and we are happy to give more detail if you’d like on that. I think you got copies today of the Annual Report that you had requested, as Commissioner Moore mentioned. You had asked about, in light of fairly a lot of opposition I should say, on Polk Street to the MTA's bike lane proposal. You had asked us to follow-up with MTA to see what their plans are. The short answer is that they don't know yet. They are looking and evaluating other options and we'll get back to you on that to see how they are moving ahead with that potential bike lane on that street. In your packets this afternoon you will see drawings related to the idea of an alternative on Interstate 280 that might involve the removal of that, we have drawings in your packet that we have done to look at what might look like in the future if that alternative for high speed  rail was chosen in the future. You also asked about the new façade proposal for the Transbay Terminal, we do not have drawings for that yet, we have asked the TJPA for that. If you might recall, that project is not subject to the Department or Commission’s approval. So, we don't have anything on file. We are getting new drawings from TJPA and I have asked them to draft a short memo to you to explain those changes, we don’t have that yet, as soon as we do, we'll get that to you as well. Lastly, I think that last week's packet you got the technical memo related to the EIR for CPMC that explains how the EIR that was done covers the current proposed alternative. This week's packet, for next week, you’ll have an initiation packet for CPMC that would initiate the General Plan and Code changes next week and then the actual tentative date for the hearing on the project is May 16th, I believe. We'll get you the full packet two weeks in advance of the May 16thhearing, so you have enough time for that. Today you will get in your packet for next week the initiation packet for CPMC as well. Then I want to follow-up on a public workshop last night in the Castro, on the Castro Street Urban Design Streetscape Plan, this is the Plan that is one of many that we are working on across the City, Streetscape Improvements that were funded through the 2011 bond issue the Department has been working with the Department of Public Works and MTA on a Streetscape Plan for the Castro and we have had an incredible turnout. We had 150 people, again, last night for this meeting looking at alternatives for the Castro Street improvements between Market and 19thStreet and including portions of 18thStreet, as well, and our hope is to finalize that design by the end of this month. Thanks to the bond issue we'll be able to move forward on that portion within the next couple of years.
12.        Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
1.         You recommended removing the Tobacco Paraphernalia restriction from the Polk Street NCD – recommendation was not incorporated.
2.         PC sought to modify several controls within the proposed Lower Polk Alcohol RUD, most of which were included in the revised ordinance. However, the major recommendation that the ban on new bars and liquor stores be modified was not changed.
This commission had recommended these three changes instead of a ban :
a.Prohibit new bars and liquor stores uses when located on a parcel within 100’ of a parcel on which an existing bar or liquor store is located; No proximity controls were included in the revised Ordinance.
b.New bar and liquor store uses may be permitted with Conditional Use authorization from the Planning Commission unless they are located on a parcel within 100’ of a parcel with an existing bar or liquor store;
c.Require that new Restaurants with Type 47 ABC licenses obtain Conditional Use authorization.
The following recommendations of the PC were incorporated:
a.Remove the requirement that Restaurants with Type 47 or 49 liquor licenses close by midnight.
b.Require that restaurants continue food service until closing.
c.Modify the proposed abandonment period for existing liquor establishments such that liquor establishments are considered an abandoned use if the use has been discontinued 3 years or more; The abandonment period was increased to but only to 1 year.
d.Add a sunset provision for the proposed Lower Polk Alcohol Restricted Use District so that the provisions of the district would expire after three years.  The amended legislation includes a 5 year sunset provision.
Lastly you requested that the ordinance add an emphasis on enforcement of existing problem operators. This was not included in the revised legislation.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Good Afternoon Commissioners, Tim Frye here to share with you a short summary of yesterday’s Historic Preservation Commission hearing. After a discussion of the roles of officers and their Rules and Regulations, the Commission elected Karl Hasz as President, and Andrew Wolfram as Vice-President. That was unanimously approved. At that point President Hasz appointed Vice President Wolfram, Commissioner Aaron Hyland and Commissioner Jon Pearlman to the Architectural Review Committee and the ARC will have their first committee meeting on April 17th. The Commission then continued its appointment of member to the Historic Preservation Fund Committee pending City Attorney advice on whether or not they are required to appoint an HPC Commissioner to that Fund Committee or if they can appoint any member of the public. That item was continued also to its April 17thhearing.  The Commission then approved a Certificate of Appropriateness for a new convenience station and Rec/Park storage and maintenance facility in Washington Square Park. That was approved unanimously with several commissioners commenting the compatibility of the new design of the structure. A number of members of the public also came out in support of the new structure. The Commission then provided a positive recommendation for 572 7thStreet to use 803.9 Section of the Planning Code.  As you know this is a section of the Planning Code that allows for flexibility and zoning uses for California Register, National Register eligible buildings as well as City Landmarks. 572 7thStreet is individually listed on the California Register and it has provided a preservation and maintenance plan for the building over the next 25 years. The Commission provided advice to the Zoning Administrator, who will exercise the final decision on whether or not to allow office in a previously PDR zoned building. Finally the Commission enthusiastically endorsed and adopted the Sunset Builders Historic Context Statement; this is a Historic Context Statement, for primarily just the Sunset Neighborhoods on the west side of the City. It also provides an evaluated framework for buildings constructed between 1928 and 1950 within the Sunset Neighborhood and a copy of that Context Statement has been forwarded to all of you for your information as well. There is a survey associated with the Context Statement and that survey and findings will be before the HPC sometime this summer.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
13.                                                                                                    (D. SIDER: (415) 575-6697)
PLANNING COMMISSION POLICY ON TIMING OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION- Discussion and action on Resolutions that would establish Planning Commission policies regarding time frames for the implementation of projects generally requiring Commission approval
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 14, 2013)
Preliminary Recommendation: Adoption
SPEAKERS:     Henry Lam, George Lam
ACTION:Adopted Clarifying Policy
AYES:               Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis
NAYES:            Wu, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:18837
SPEAKERS:     Henry Lam, George Lam
ACTION:Adopted Opt-In Stimulus with Modifications, extending eligibility dates fromApril 4, 2003thru October 4, 2011.
AYES:              Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis
NAYES:            Wu, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:18838