All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2012.0255C(D. VU: (415) 575-9120)
2222 MARKET STREET- north side between Noe and Sanchez Streets; Lot 031 in Assessor’s Block 3560 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 733.56, to allow temporary parking on a portion of the accessory parking for an existing motel(d.b.a. Beck’s Motor Lodge) in the Upper Market NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District, and 40-50-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18796
3.2012.0691c(M. STAHLHUT: (415) 575-9116)
501 TAYLOR STREET-northwest corner of Geary and Taylor Streets, Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 0305 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.6(b) and 303 for a proposed wireless telecommunications services facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The facility would consist of up to sixteen antennas and associated equipment located on the rooftop of an existing mixed-use building.  The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 5 (Preferred Location Site) within a RC-4 (Residential – Commercial, High Density)) Zoning District and 80-T-130-T Height and Bulk District, the North of Market Residential Special Use District and the Fringe Financial Services Restricted Use District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18797
4.2011.1237c(M. STAHLHUT: (415) 575-9116)
3110 OCTAVIA STREET- northeast corner of Octavia Street and Lombard Street, Lot 013 in Assessor’s Block 0496 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 710.83 and 303 for a proposed wireless telecommunications services facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The facility would consist of up to nine antennas on the rooftop and associated equipment in the basement of an existing wholly commercial hotel building.  The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 2 (Preferred Location) Site within a NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial – Moderate-Scale) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  The mailed notice for this facility noted the location as northeast corner of Octavia and El Camino Real, but the agenda language has been updated to reflect the proper Assessor’s street name of Lombard Street instead of El Camino Real.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Tedi Vriheas, Joy Duffy
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Wu, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RECUSED:       Antonini
ABSENT:          Fong
MOTION:18798
5.2012.1351c(M. STAHLHUT: (415) 575-9116)
1520 STOCKTON STREET- east side of Stockton Street near Green Street and Columbus Avenue, Lot 020B in Assessor’s Block 0116 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 722.83 and 303 for a proposed wireless telecommunications services facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The facility consists of nine existing antennas and includes moving three existing panel antennas from the west side to the east side of the rooftop penthouse of an existing medical services building. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 2 Site (Preferred Location) within the North Beach Neighborhood Commercial (NCD), the North Beach Special Use District (SUD), the North Beach Financial Services Restricted Use SUD, the Telegraph Hill – North Beach Residential SUD, and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Tedi Vriheas, Daniel Schwartz
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18799
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
6.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for January 24, 2013.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
7.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I want to give Commissioner Antonini the benefit of explaining the purple.
Commissioner Antonini:
Thank you Commissioner Moore, it is nothing earthshaking, I was just going to say it is not a coincidence that I am wearing purple or lavender today, but I haven’t become a Ravens fan, but I would like to speak in positive tones for the City of Baltimore, and what we saw how a City came together after their Super Ball victory. But going back in time a little bit, it is an area that has had tough times economically and also in terms of football franchises. As some of you may know, the Colts were jerked out of Baltimore in the middle of the night and moved to Indianapolis some years back. Later they were able to recapture their own football franchise and were actually at the expense of the Cleveland Browns, but it was done the right way. The Cleveland Browns’ name and color stayed in Cleveland, and the team that was the Cleveland Browns moved to Baltimore became the Ravens. Subsequent to that, in that same time frame, I think what we can credit Baltimore for is the renaissance of inner-city stadiums with the building first of Camden Yards, which was the first of the new, old-style baseball stadiums that were located not in suburban parks, but in the middle of cities and we are the beneficiary of their vision because subsequent to that a lot of other parks were built in the middle of cities and most noticeably for us AT&T Park, which has been a wonderful asset for us. They also built a new football stadium just a few hundred yards or maybe 1,000 yards or so away from Camden Yards at the end of previous train yards and proved to be a great benefit for the city of Baltimore. I commend them for their vision in this issue, but I'm also happy for them even though I am very sad for us having lost the game. I have to acknowledge some of the leadership and some good choices that were made in the past that set the tone for stadiums being within the middle of cities.
Commissioner Moore:
Now I know. There must be a Baltimore leaning seeing City Attorney Burns and Commissioner Wu also wearing purple. On another matter, this is to the Director.  There is an article in today’s Business Times saying new tech friendly Transbay Tower may come too late for Google, speaking about potential redesigns of the lower floors of the Transbay Tower. I also heard that Salesforce might be looking for a building we approved on the corner of Mission and Fremont.  Anyone of those streets down there.  If there are updates as they pertain to changes in building I think the Commission would be very interested to get a general update from you on those matters. So that we know when the public approaches us what needs to come back, what we are extending entitlements to, etc. That will be my comment. If you have not seen the article I would be happy to pass it on to you.
Commissioner Borden:
Not to belabor the football points, but I actually grew up in Baltimore. So, thank you Commissioner Antonini.  The City did lose its team in 1983 in a snowstorm on a Mayflower Truck.  Mayflower actually went out of business in Maryland as a consequence of that.  There has been a tremendous rebirth and revitalization not only downtown, but all along the waterfront there and what’s actually been really interesting, there’s two interesting dynamics of that City, they really embrace biotech medical science, but the second thing is the Johns Hopkins University has really helped to develop large swaths of the City. They see it as their larger civic duty to help make Baltimore a better city.  It is a really positive example of how --  an institution can work positively with the City, to make a really positive outcome in providing housing not just for the students, but beyond and revitalizing neighborhoods. If there is something to learn from Baltimore that’s something.
8.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Thank you, Jonas. Commissioner Moore, on that one question that you raised about 350 Mission, I did meet with the new owners of the project. They are planning on moving ahead with the project as designed and approved by the Commission, that project will not see any changes. Salesforce will be the primary sole occupant. They are not proposing any design changes, as of this time I haven’t heard anything.
Commissioner Moore:
I am saying it because you were quoted in the paper many many weeks ago, as saying that if they want to add two or three stories that is fine with me. Somebody might have put words in your mouth. But, if that would be the case, I assume that this Commission would like to know and so would the public because I am sure you did not say that.
Director Rahaim:
Well, no and if they did add some floors,they would have to come back to you of course, so that we can certainly work on that. I have not heard about changes to the Transbay Tower. Secondly I want to let the Commission know that we are working on a couple of memos that you asked for. One, the information about Interstate 280 that had come up a couple of weeks ago, we are working on that as well.  That concludes my report unless you have questions.
9.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
1.Allow existing soft site car-share spaces that have been in place for a year or more to be retained in new development without reducing the permitted levels of private parking.
2.Cap the maximums for voluntary car-share spaces in residential[1]and commercial[2]buildings.
3.Require signage above or next to each additional car-share space[3].
4.Amend the legislation to state that any optional car-share spots covered by this Ordinance shall only be allowed for projects that do not seek a Conditional Use to increased parking.
5.Consider new legislation allowing MTA to enforce parking on private property or provide the Planning Department with more enforcement and citation power to better monitor these spaces.
At the hearing, SFMTA spoke in support of taking on responsibility for enforcing parking violations of the Planning Code. Supervisor Wiener indicated that he will be in conversation with both Departments to explore these ideas.Our department is to develop the signage requirements for car-share.There were three speakers in opposition and one speaker in support.  Board President Chiu a new member of the LU Committee expressed concern over enforcement, stating enthusiasm for development of new enforcement methods. The ordinance was unanimously recommended for approval to the Full Board.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
INTRODUCTIONS: We have a host of new introductions.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The HPC Commission began with President Damkroger appointing three members to the Architecture Review Committee which is a Subcommittee of the HPC focused mainly on design review for landmark properties. President Damkroger appointed herself as well as Commissioners Haas and Wolfram to thatCommittee. The Department also presented our proposed the 2013-2015 Work Program for HPC recommendation.  This Work Program will be before you in next week’s hearing on February 14th. The HPC voted in support of the Work Program with several modifications. One was to increase staff allowed for community initiated surveys and landmark designations above the current .05 FTE. To also identify funding sources and staff time to complete historic resource surveys initiated by the former Redevelopment Agency.  Lastly to identify additional funding sources for the development of San Francisco Context Space Historic Design Guidelines. Our Finance Division is looking into these recommendations and will present to you next week. The HPC also provided recommendation on the fulfillment of mitigations measures outlined in the 55 Laguna Project EIR. The HPC reviewed the adequacy of documentation of the site. Which was largely ??? documentation.  This documentation includes a narrative description of the site, photos of the existing buildings and their existing condition as well as measured drawings. Other mitigation also includes mural investigation and testing of several historic murals located on the property and an updated historic window into our survey. The HPC endorsed all of this work to date.  In fulfillment of mitigation with a few minor modifications. The HPC's recommendation will be forwarded to the Department’s Environmental Review Officer for finalization. The HPC also recommended approval of an amendment initiated by the Planning Commission at last week’s hearing regarding a change of zoning to the fire house located in the Dogpatch District, this property will change from P (Public) Zoning to UMU (Urban Mixed Use), which is the predominant surrounding zoning not only within the Dogpatch Landmark District, but outside of that District.  Both the Planning Commission and the HPC recommendations will be forwarded to the Board of Supervisors. The Commission also requested a special hearing on 900 Innes, this is Landmark 250 the Shipwright’s Cottage located in the Bayview. This week the Department of Building Inspection scheduled its own hearing regarding a series of outstanding violations on the property, particularly in violation of the Vacant and Abandoned Building Ordinance. That hearing was continued to March 7th. In the meantime, the Historic Preservation Commission invited the property owner, members of the community and discussed with Department staff on ways to remedy these outstanding violations and in particular, find additional funding sources to put a new roof on the building and secure the structure from continued vandalism and repair. By the end of the hearing Commissioner Hasz, volunteered to work with SF Architectural Heritage, the property owner and the community to look for these other funding sources to obtain a few cost estimates for a new roof. The HPC will now have regular updates on this property to ensure that everyone keeps focus on the repair effort and we'll certainly keep you all updated as well. The Commission endorsed the Department Certified Local Government annual report that follows the preservation activities of the Department and the HPC from September 2011 through October 2012. It also outlines goals for the upcoming year. A copy of this final report will be sent to the Planning Commission and should be finalized by the end of this week. Finally, yesterday Mayor Lee signed the landmark designation ordinances for both Twin Peaks Tavern and Sam Jordan's Bar. The ceremony included the owners, not only the business owners, but the property owners, Supervisors Cohen and Wiener, members of the Planning Department staff and the Historic Commission.