All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
4.2012.1434C(J. LOOK: (415) 575-6812)
4416 18thSTREET- north side of 18thStreet between Douglas Street and Eureka Street; Lot 017 in Assessor’s Block 2650-Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303, 715.44, and 721.44 to a change of use from a Limited-Restaurant to a Restaurant (d.b.a. Mamma Ji’s) within a RH-3 (Residential-House– Three Family) District, and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The project is located within an existing limited commercial use (LCU).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Marvin Wolpa, Richard McCree
ACTION: After being pulled off of Consent, Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
MOTION:18830
5.2012.1381U(K. HADDADAN: (415) 575-9068)
PLANNING CODE - INCLUSIONARY AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM- Reduction of On-Site Requirements, Updates, and ClarificationsOrdinanceamending the San Francisco Planning Code, Section 401, and provisions of theInclusionary Affordable Housing Ordinance, Sections 415 et seq., to update and clarifyprovisions of the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Program to reflect a reduction of certain on-site requirements under Charter Section 16.110, by providing a cap on rent increases;clarifying the timing of off-site developments; requiring rental units that convert to ownership tosell at less than the price for ownership units under certain circumstance; establishing pricingfor affordable Single Room Occupancy units; changing the status of projects using CaliforniaDebt Limit Allocation Committee tax exempt bonds so that such projects are subject to theProgram, but that units may qualify as on or off-site units under certain circumstances; allowingincome levels of qualifying households to exceed those specified in certain situations;authorizing the Mayor’s Office of Housing to charge a monitoring fee to verify occupancy ofaffordable units; clarifying that the threshold application of the Program to projects of 10 units or more applies to the South of Market Youth and Family Special Use District and all other areas of the City; and making technical clarifications and corrections; and making environmentalfindings and findings of consistency with General Plan.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: After being pulled off of Consent, Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:              Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
RESOLUTION:18831
6.2013.0044T(S. HAYWARD: (415) 558-6372)
AMENDMENT TO THE PLANNING CODE SECTION 785 DELETING THE SUNSET PROVISION OF THE EXCELSIOR ALCOHOL RESTRICTED USE DISTRICT [BOARD FILE NO. 130018]-  Ordinance introduced by Supervisor Avalos that wouldamend Planning Code Section 785 to delete the sunset provision. The existing sunset provision would repeal Section 785 five years after the initial effective date of the Excelsior Alcohol RUD; and adopting findings, including environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:              Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
RESOLUTION:18828
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
7.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for March 7, 2013
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted as Modified by Commission Moore
AYES:              Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
8.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
Director Rahaim, I read your weekly report, and I’d like to restate my interest in hearing somebody present on the newest situation on the Transbay Tower, there are façade changes and material and kind of expression, which I think should be interesting for this group, as well as for the public to hear.
Commissioner Antonini:
I would agree with Commissioner Moore, although I believe it is the Transbay Terminal not the Transbay Tower that is having the façade changes on the material.  Also, I wanted to know if we are going to get a hard copy of the Annual Report in the near future.  I was a guest by the Exploration on Tuesday afternoon, and what a faboulous renovation it is, I was able to see it ahead of time, and I think you are all going to enjoy it, when you have the opportunity to go there. And in connection with the renovation, I went last night to the SF Business Times, Real Estate Awards for the year, and the Exploratium was the winner for Renovation Project of the Year, it had some tough competition, in fact the runner up was the Memorial Stadium in Berkeley, which was also very significant and well done renovation, but I thought it was terrific, and they will be opening early April.
Commissioner Sugaya:
There was an article in the paper, reporting on a community meeting held by MTA, on Polk the Street bike lane. Ithink it was overwhelmingly opposed and it indicated that MTA might be back peddling on that. I’d like to have some memo or something with respect to, not only that idea and whether they really actually rescinded it or not, and they are also rumors that MTA is considering one way couplet on Polk and Larkin, I do not know if that is ill founded or not, but if we could hear about that also.  Secondly, staff  AnMarie Rodgers sent around some information on the CPMC situation, and we do not have to get into here, we can’t, but I would like some additional information on why the EIR does not have to be redone and recirculated, especially with respect to St. Luke’s, since St. Luke’s is going to be enlarged.
Commissioner Borden:
I would like to know the schedule for CPMC.  The other question was, there was an article in the San Jose Mercury News about 280 and the cooperative nature between the Mayor of San Francisco and the Mayor of San Jose, actually supporting this new tech focus across the Bay Area, I know you sent us a memo about the 280 Plans, but this article made it sound like things are a little more mature, the Mayors are working together with their joint strategies around tech companies. I just would love to…thought if it was possible to have an informational item on the Plans, that would be great.  It also mentioned some issues that Caltrain and other people might find interesting.
Commissioner Moore:
Regarding 280, Director Rahaim, you had actually promised a diagram, in addition to the article, we would also be able to physically see, which particular sites and ramps would be included.  As to following up on Commissioner Antonioni’s comment on the Exploratorium, actually Commissioner Borden and myself, we forgot to mention it last week, we were the first two Commissioners going, and the project is still in the final stages of been finish, and it is indeed a, just very inspiring experience to see it at this stage.
Commissioner Sugaya:
Yes, I do not know, if anybody reads letters to the Editor, but this morning there was a letter about 280 and the amount of animals that are been killed crossing the road.
Commissioner Antonini:
There was a meeting last night, which I was unable to attend in the neighborhood where I live west of Twins Peaks.  Apparently there are plans for the rerouting of the MUNI M-Line, possibly planning to put it underneath 19thAvenue, which makes a lots of sense, but they are other parts of that, and I was not able to attend that meeting.  I will find out more about it, but I also would like to get anything that is available coming from MTA as to the nature of their plans and follow up on it.
9.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
As it was mentioned, the Department released our 2011-2012 Annual Report, which is available online.  We will be getting Commissioners hard copies, although we are prevented by a recent code amendment at the Board from printing multiple copies, we can only print so many copies of large documents, but we will be giving the Commissioners hard copies. Secondly, last night we had a very well-attended informational session for the public on the Permit Tracking System.  It was a packed house, standing room only.  We had a great cross section of people, seeing the demonstration of the system for the first time. I am very pleased to report that we are still on schedule, on budget with DBI to release and to go live with the system in mid-Fall.  There is a survey on our website, if people are interested in looking at it and filling in the survey about what you would like to see in the system, but we saw a demonstration of both the public access version of the system, as well as, the system that the staff will use. It is a very robust system. Every time I see it, I am more and more excited, how much it will help our work, keep track of our work, able to produce reports, and information about what we do, and obviously help the public and project sponsors get more information about their projects as it moves forward.  We will be having quarterly open public meetings as the project progresses. Thirdly, just with respect to CPMC, I do not know a bit about it.  We have, the reason, the short answer we can get you more information on it, is that, it was this alternative that is currently been discussed, it was one of the alternatives looked at it in the EIR, essentially for a smaller Cathedral Hill Hospital and a larger St. Luke’s Hospital, and that is why we’ve been able to make a determination that the EIR does not have to be redone.  There was a detailed memo sent to the Board with that respect, and we can certainly get you copies of that as well.  The current schedule on CPMC is that, it would come to you in mid-April for initiation of the General Plan changes and Code Amendments.  It will be before you for action tentatively on May 13th, and then to the Land Use Committee of the Board in June, and potential action in July.  That is the current schedule we are looking at obviously it is subject to change.
10.        Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
In review, since the Planning Commission adopted its recommendations for the Plan in December, the Board of Supervisors have made the following amendments:
§Removal of "B" bulk designations throughout the plan area
§Rezoning most proposed RED properties fronting major streets to RED-MX
§Rezoning the "Rawhide" and "Sightglass" properties on 7th Street from Folsom St NCT to WMUG
§Removing the grandfathering provision for the "Purple Building" residential development on 11th Street due to a negotiated agreement between the property owner and the entertainment community
§Adding a grandfathering provision for the AAU CU for 601 Brannan St
§Allowing lot mergers in WMUO that create a property with up to 200 feet of frontage on a single street (instead of up to 100 feet)
§Increasing the residential impact fees for "Major Developments" from Tier 1 to Tier 2.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
Three projects were scheduled before the Board of Appeals:
264 Dore Street
This is an appeal of a building permit to construct a two story auto repair use.  Last year, the Commission heard this item as a DR and required a small setback at the rear of the building to reduce potential impacts on live-work units to the rear.  On February 24th, the Board of Appeals upheld the permit; however, the Appellant requested a rehearing request and also filed a CEQA appeal.  On Tuesday, the parties reached an agreement and the CEQA appeal and rehearing request were withdrawn.
125 Crown Terrace
This is an appeal of a building permit for vertical and horizontal additions to the subject property.  The Planning Commission heard this item as a DR in October 2012 and approved the subject permit.  The Appellant in this case expressed concerns about the size of the building and argued that it was a de-facto demo under Section 317.  The Board of Appeals upheld the Planning Commission's decision and approved the permit.
1325 Portola Drive
This is an appeal of a building permit to correct the as-built conditions of a new construction at the subject property (the original plans did not accurately represent the slope of the lot or adjacent building).  The Planning Commission heard this item as a DR in January and approved the permit.  The Appellant argued that this project was out of character with the neighborhood and the height should be lowered. The Board of Appeals upheld the Planning Commission's decision and approved the permit.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
At yesterday’s hearing we welcomed our newest HPC Commissioners, Commissioner Jonathan Pearlman, who occupies the Architectural Historian Seat and Commissioner Ellen Johnck, who occupies the Preservation Professional Seat.  However, a couple of Commissioners were absent, so the Commission decided to continue its Election of Officers and Committee Appointments to its April 3rdhearing, when it is anticipated that the full Commission will be present.  The Commission also continued its review and comment of the 200-214 6thStreet, Hayston Apartment Building Draft EIR.  The Commission had several comments and questions about the preservation alternatives outlined within the EIR, and those will be addressed during the comments and responses period of that document.  The Commission also heard an informational presentation, by Ms. AnMarie Rodgers of our Department and Patrick Otellini, the Director of Earthquake Safety, regarding the Soft-Story Retrofit Program, I believe that informational presentation is also on your calendar today. Mr. Ottelini’s presentation was very thorough and the Commission did not have any comments or questions concluding that presentation.  The Commission also continued its review and comment of Supervisor Weiner’s, proposed CEQA amendments, there was a great deal of public comments during the hearing, the Commission however supported the proposed amendments with Commissioner Hyland requesting a continuance because it is a very complicated document and he felt there was not enough time to fully understand the amendments as a new Commissioner, and give the amendments a positive vote of support.  Finally, the Commission approved a Major Permit to Alter at 300 Montgomery Street, for the replacement of architectural terracotta on the façade of that Category I property within the Downtown C-3 District, and they also approved a Certificate of Appropriateness forthe final phase of restoration to restore the Hallidie Building curtain wall system, located at 130 Sutter Street.