All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
4.2012.1341C(G. CABREROS: (415) 558-6169)
2320 SUTTER STREET- north side between Scott and Divisadero Streets; Lot 034 in Assessor’s Block 1051 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303, 121.2 and 712.21 for a use size 6,000 square feet or greater, to increase the use size of the existing two-story, 9,200 square-foot medical office building to 14,700 square feet by constructing a three-story rear horizontal addition within a NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate Scale) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
MOTION:18857
5.2013.0025C(S. YOUNG: (415) 558-6346)
1946 FILLMORE STREET- southeast corner of Fillmore and Pine Streets; Lot 023 in Assessor’s Block 0660 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 303, 718.24, 718.44, 790.70, and 790.91 to allow the change of use from a Limited Restaurant (previously occupied by Johnny Rockets) to a Restaurant (d.b.a. Glaze Teriyaki) and to allow an ‘Outdoor Activity Area’ (dining patio) at the rear of the restaurant within the Upper Fillmore Street Neighborhood Commercial District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
MOTION:18858
6.2012.0231C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
758 DIVISADERO STREET- at the southeast corner of Divisadero and Fulton streets, Lot 019 in Assessor’s Block 1181  -Request for Conditional use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 710.83 and 303 for a proposal to install a wireless telecommunications services macro-site facility operated by AT&T Mobility. The proposed facility would consist of nine roof-mounted antennas in two sectors. The first sector (six antennas) would be located in a faux roof addition above the bay penthouse. The remaining sector (three antennas) would be located on the building roof and not be visible from adjacent public rights-of-way. Electronic equipment associated with the facility would be located within a third floor room. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 5 Site (Preferred Location) within a NC-2 (Neighborhood Commercial, Small Scale) Zoning District and 65-A Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of April 25, 2013)
SPEAKERS:     Eric Lentz, Douglas Martin
ACTION: After being pulled off of Consent, Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
MOTION:18859
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
7.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for April 25, 2013
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
8.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I have a couple things. First of all, I wanted to report the Secretary Search Subcommittee continues to meet and is making good progress. We will be meeting again in a couple of weeks and ultimately, once we get down to the selection process, the entire Commission will be involved obviously in that, but we are doing well on that, I believe. A couple of other things -- is this on, can you hear me now? Sorry.  I went to the Friends of City Planning event last night. I want to thank them; they always have a wonderful event. And there was a lot of, a huge attendance and a lot of jubilation as it should with the things that are going on in the City as far as we're seeing projects that were approved over a period of 10 years finally getting built, both housing and commercial, and a lot of interest in San Francisco, both for residential and for business. But we have problems, as you're all aware, and I think we can't get too self-congratulatory while things still exist, and I've spoken often about homelessness and street people and the fact that we're not meeting their needs and it's not helping our residents or tourists or visitors to our City on that issue. And also there was a very good article in the Examiner on, yesterday. It talks about people under the stairs and basically focuses on the Excelsior District in particular, where most of the homes are single-family residences, but there are a lot more than single families living in these homes and there are probably a lot of illegal units, perhaps many with kitchens and are certainly overcrowding situations. One of the reasons we see all the fires that have occurred and other issues sometimes where there are limits to the number of non-related people that can live in a residence, I think, and other things. And one of the article -- part of the article mentioned that they do have some periodic inspections, but if nobody's home they just pass it over. I would like to see a little more organized plan to inspect even single-family homes. I'm fine with that. I live in a single-family home. I have no problem with somebody coming by and making sure it's in compliance because many of the problems that we have in these areas, such as home prices going up astronomically, parking problems have their origin in the fact a lot more people are living in these structures than they're designed to hold. And many times the owners are not even present there. They're just renting it out to -- making it into a quasi-hotel and it's supposed to be a single-family home. So, I think we need to do some work on that. And finally, there was an article in The Chronicle on Saturday, and I was mentioned as part of the article had to do with the graffiti problem with particular reference to these stores that are operating at night and weekends and selling graffiti to graffiti vandals. I worked with staff a little bit to try to find out if there's ways we can close them down or at least restrict their operations. One of them may be formula retail, so that is one thing we are looking at because obviously none of them came before us for approval in that regard. I also I am going to either propose some legislation on my own through the Commission, of course. I found out how that can be done, or approach one of the members of the Board of Supervisors to look into a restriction on the sales of spray cans. We're all about the environment. We're always banning plastic bags and everything else and nothing can be more polluting than spray paint, especially being used for vandalism. So, you know that might be something that some supervisors would be interested in. And also I understand the penalties for graffiti vandalism only involve community service. There are no fines involved in that, and many of the vandals are regulars into their 20s and 30s, and many of them have assets that certainly could be tapped to pay for some of the damage they've done. So, I'd like to see something a little tougher in our laws. So, that's one of the things I'm working on, and I thank you for your time.
9.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just wanted to mention an event that I think I sent you an announcement about, which is an event that I'm moderating next week with an organization called The Council of Tall Buildings and Urban Habitats, an unusual name. Actually an organization that's been around for, since the '60s, it's based in Chicago and there's a group of people trying to start a Chapter here in San Francisco. They are sponsoring this event that they've asked me to moderate to talk about future density and how to make it livable. And, so, there is a panel discussion. That will take place next Tuesday evening at Gensler's offices. And I will, as I said, be moderating that panel. And I think that's it for me today unless there are any questions.
10.        Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·BF 121019 & 130248 Supervisor Wiener & Kim’s CEQA Procedures Ordinance.Both items were called together again at the Committee on Monday.Only Supervisor Wiener’s proposal could be considered for action because Supervisor Kim’s proposal would affect the Historic Preservation Commission and that commission won’t consider her proposal until May 15.  You’ll recall, both this Commission and the HPC supported Supervisor Wiener’s proposal with 2 requested modifications which were addressed by Supervisor Wiener.  This week at committee the following amendments were made:
1.31.04(i). Clarifies that when Planning identifies the Approval Action for a CEQA decision it shall post that information on its website, in addition to any other manner that we would choose. (Chiu)
2.31.08(d). Provides that departments other than Planning that issue exemptions shall inform Planning and provide Planning with copies and Planning shall make information about such exemptions available on its website to the same extent that it does for other exemptions. (Chiu)
3.31.08(i) and 31.19(b). Further clarifies that if an exempt project is modified, an additional CEQA decision is required if the modified project exceeds the scope of the original project for any aspect of the project regulated under the Planning Code or if a new use is introduced. (Chiu)
4.31.19(b). Adds a requirement that Planning provide notice when it determines that a project modification is sufficiently minor not to trigger a new CEQA decision. (Chiu)
5.31.11(j); 31.15(e). Provides that Planning is not required to file a notice of determination until the Project Sponsor has paid any required fees for such filing. (Wiener)
6.31/16(b)(3) Provides that once the Clerk has scheduled an appeal for hearing, other City bodies shall not take action or make approvals. (Chiu)
7.31.16(b)(2) Establishes procedures for Clerk & Planning for appeals: Requires that Planning advise the Clerk within three working days of a filed appeal as to whether the appeal is timely. Gives the Clerk seven days from the filing date to determine if the appeal complies with the requirements in the ordinance for filing an appeal. (Clerk proposed; committee included)
8.Adds back to Section 31.16(b)(4) language requiring the Clerk to schedule the appeal hearing no less than 30 days after the time for filing an appeal has expired.  With the revision, the Clerk must schedule an appeal hearing no less than 30 and no more than 45 days after the time for filing an appeal has expired. (Chiu)
Supervisor Chiu moved to amend the ordinance as described above and Supe. Wiener seconded that motion.  Supervisor Kim asked that the item be continued for two weeks so that her ordinance could also be considered.  Supervisor Chiu stated that he is considering the ideas in her ordinance and believes that a one week continuance is sufficient.  The Committee then continued Supe. Wiener’s Ordinance with Chiu’s amendments to next week.  Supervisor Kim’s Ordinance is expected to be heard in two weeks.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
The project is proposed as a 550-ft-tall residential tower at 3rd and Mission Streets.  The project would include space for the Mexican Museum in the lower floors of both buildings, up to 215 residential units, and ground floor restaurant or retail.  The Aronson Building would be rehabilitated and restored as part of the project.  The existing Jessie Square Garage would be reconfigured for additional parking spaces: of the 470 parking spaces, 210 would remain publically available.
Appellants disagreed with the Department that the proposed project would not result in a significant impact to cumulative pedestrian conditions in the area.  Appellants state this should have been identified in the EIR with appropriate mitigation measures to address pedestrian capacity and safety.
Appellants believed that the EIR is inadequate in the following areas: traffic and circulation including pedestrian traffic and safety, shadow on city parks, mitigation measures and alternatives with respect to shadow, historic resources, air quality, greenhouse gas emissions, noise, and recreation.
At the Board hearing, staff explained that the EIR appeal letters raised a number of issues that are the same as or similar to those addressed in the FEIR.
At Tuesday’s hearing, the Board members focused their discussion on shadow impacts, pedestrian impacts analysis and traffic analysis, and project alternatives.  The proposed project is in Supervisor Jane Kim’s District and she led the discussion and questioning.
With respect to shadow, the Supervisors were particularly interested in the basis for the significance determinations, and in the treatment of parks protected under Section 295 versus non-Rec Park properties.  Questions were also raised with respect to the role of mitigation measures as compared to that of alternatives.  Both mechanisms are intended to address (that is, reduce or eliminate) significant environmental impacts of the project.  With respect to the proposed project’s considerable contribution to the significant cumulative shadow impact, two alternatives that reduce shadow impacts were fully analyzed in the EIR.
Supervisor asked questions regarding the financial feasibility of a building that would not shade Union Square.  Information regarding the financial feasibility of a project that would not shade Union Square will be provided during the consideration of the project entitlements.
With respect to pedestrian analysis, the Board questioned how the baseline analysis is assessed[1].  Staff clarified that the Department’s transportation impact analyses use typical baseline conditions in the project area[2].  The Department believes that using typical baseline conditions results in a fairer assessment of the project’s impacts.  However, the Supervisors expressed concerned regarding this approach for an area already experiencing crowded conditions such as around the project site.
The Supervisors expressed support for the Mexican Museum.  Supervisors Kim and Campos [possibly others] requested that the Project Sponsor continue to work with appellants to address their concerns, particularly with respect to shadow and traffic.  The Supervisors look forward to hearing more about the project at the time of project approvals.
While Supervisor Kim had many questions for the Planning Staff, she ultimately agreed with the decision and analysis of the Department.  The Board voted unanimously to uphold the Commission’s decision to certify the final EIR.
INTRODUCTIONS:
·130441. Avalos.Hearing on proposed uses of Affordable Housing Fund Stabilization Program to support San Francisco homeowners to preserve affordable housing options and upgrade habitability of secondary units.
·130437 Mar.Hearing to look at how parklets have spread in certain parts of the City, examine their impact, and consider the benefits they may provide to merchant corridors.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals met last night and considered four items that may be of interest to the Commission.
·125 Crown Terrace (Rehearing Request) - On March 20, 2013, the Board of Appeals upheld the Planning Commission's decision to approve the subject alteration permit.  Last night, the Board unanimously denied the Appellant's request for a rehearing of the item.
·5234 Mission Street (Jurisdiction Request) - On February 16, 2012, the Planning Commission approved a permit to allow an MCD at the subject location.  On February 14, 2013, the building permit was issued; however, no appeals were filed on the permit issuance.  On April 22, 2013, a Jurisdiction Request was filed to reopen the 15-day appeal period.  Last night, the Board unanimously denied the Jurisdiction Request.
·Piers 27-29 - Appeal of the Entertainment Commission's issuance on April 3, 2013 of a Place of Entertainment Permit for the "Live Nation/America's Cup Pavilion."  Last night the Board unanimously upheld the entertainment permit.
·349 Banks Street - Appeal of a release of suspension related to a building permit to legalize a deck on the subject property.  On March 7, 2013, the Planning Commission heard a DR on the matter and voted unanimously to not take DR.  Last night, the Board heard the matter and unanimously upheld the Planning Commission.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No meeting