All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2012.1296C(C. TEAGUE: (415) 575-9081)
383 RHODE ISLAND STREET- east side at the northeast corner of the intersection with 17thStreet; Lot 004 in Assessor’s Block 3956 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(c), 303(i), 843.46 to allow a “formula retail use” that is also a “financial service” (d.b.a Chase Bank) within the UMU (Urban Mixed Use) Zoning District and 48-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Douglas Fong
ACTION:After being pulled off of Consent – Approved w/Conditions as amended to include:
1.Project Sponsor to continue working with Staff to address the intensity of illumination for lighting and signs; and
2.Once designed, to return to the Commission as an informational item to review the lighting and signage program for the formula retail, financial service facility.
AYES:              Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Sugaya
NAYES:            Moore, Fong
ABSENT:          Wu
MOTION:           18804
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
3.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for January 31, 2013
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:              Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Wu
4.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Couple of things, I’ve been hearing reports in the news about an impending demolition of Candlestick Park,  about a year from now, if in fact,  the Forty Niners are able to move into the stadium that is being built in Santa Clara. I think I need a little more information on this.  I’ll give you a little a bit of history on this.  As you know the City of San Francisco owns Candlestick.  I think it paid for the building of Candlestick and its enlargement in 1971, a more enlargement in 1980, I not exactly sure, whether the Forty Niners participated, but in the mid-90s there was a measure that was passed rather than renovate Candlestick after the Giants left, and Green Bay in Chicago have done with existing stadiums, that measure was passed by the voters, to allocate $100,000,000 dollars toward the building of a new stadium right next to Candlestick. Unfortunately, with some problems dealing with the Forty Niners management that never happened, and the plan moved forward and then the Forty Niners decided to begin talks with Santa Clara and announced in 2006, they were going to use that as the preferred option. The voters of San Francisco in 2008 passed a measure, it was Prop G I believe, and this particular measure moved the $100,000,000 dollar amount that has to be spent on a new stadium from the City of San Francisco to the horizontal developers of the Candlestick Point/Hunters Point Shipyard Development.  As far as I am concerned I think that it is still there. I am not really sure what happens to that. It’s not like there is not a new stadium built, one of our option we analyzed a lots of options environmentally, and one of them was to retaining of Candlestick and the area, which would have been the new stadium out at Hunters Point, would have been available to the developer.  So, I just need some answers from staff as to, how this can happen without some further action, in terms of, what I see is a requirement on the part of horizontal developers to put a hundred million dollars either toward the renovation of Candlestick or a new stadium. I do not expect an answer today, but I think it is an issue that a lot people are asking about.  And with good concern because, if it is demolished will be again without a venue that is available in San Francisco for really large crowds, in the capacity of 60-70 thousands, whichare not just limited to football games. And we suffered through having no arena 43 years and lost a lot of business because of that. Anyway, on another subject, Iwas contacted by RobertoHernandez. He has been contacted, apparently, by Google. And they are interested in having a bigger presence in theMission District, to try to helptrain residents of the MissionDistrict in technical issuesand also, perhaps, aid in cultural programming and thingsthat they are good with.His concern, via an intermediary,is to just know what the zoning is because they apparently are trying to rent a temporaryspace there to do this. And I'd just like to hear from staff if there are any barriers to this. I know that when we passed the Eastern Neighborhoods, there were certain restrictions as totech uses in certain areas, and what would qualify as such and, you know, this is somethingthat sounds like a very promising opportunity on thepart of a major tech company that is wisely developing a bigger and bigger presence in San Francisco.So, I just want to know whatthe zoning situation is there.And I can report to him. And that's basically it for today.Thank you.
Commissioner Borden:
5.         Director’s Announcements
6.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
There were no Ordinances heard at the Land Use hearing this week that involved the Planning Department; However, at the Full Board hearing, the Board of Supervisors heard and voted to approve, on first reading, Scott Weiner’s Ordinance, that would modify the Car Share parking controls.  If you recall, this Commission heard this item on December 6, 2012 and voted unanimously for approval with modifications.   Supervisor Weiner did integrate the Commission’s recommendations into the Ordinance and has also started setting up talks between the Planning Department and MTA about having the MTA take over some of the enforcement for parking regulations in the Planning Code. The second reading of this item will be next week; Also introduced at the Board this week was a hearing request by Supervisors Weiner and Breed requestingthe Office of Economic and Workforce Development, Mayor’s Office of Housing, MTA, Planning Department, and the County Transportation Authority to report on the status of the Octavia Boulevard land parcel sales and unused revenue associated with those sales. Specifically, Departments are asked to report on the rationale for using this revenue for uses other than satisfying the transportation-related needs on and around Octavia Boulevard, as well as possible solutions for meeting both the area’s significant transit needs, as well as, affordable housing needs. Another hearing request by Supervisor Scott Weiner and David Chiu was introduced at the Board requesting the MTA, Department of Public Works, the Planning Department, and the San Francisco County Transportation Authority to provide an update on the Better Market Street Project, including schedule and progress on improving interagency coordination, and the proposal to construct a separated bike lane on Mission Street.  Both hearings are tentatively scheduled for March 11, 2013.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
Board of Appeals did meet last night and had a pretty lengthy hearing. A couple items that might be of interest to the Commission would be a rehearing request for a letter of determination at 800 Brotherhood Way. In this matter the appellant seemed to base most of their rehearing request on their belief that the Board of Appeals was not properly prepared for hearing the item in the first place. The Board voted not to grant the rehearing request on that and I think as we know, the Board of Appeals is exceptionally well prepared and they do, it is my experience having been before them for 7 years, they always read their briefs and come very well prepared to the hearings. Then a couple other items, there was kind of a confusing mess with permits for the property at 68 Presidio Avenue. There was a jurisdiction request on three permits and appeal on two permits. The jurisdiction requests were denied. One of the appeals on the permits was withdrawn and the other appeal was continued. It was a matter that some of the permits had been done in an intermittent fashion, where we had minor excavation done. The next permit a bit more excavation, and then a bit more. They weren't clear on their existing plans. So, there were quite a few issues there with the plans. I think ultimately we did come to a resolution with all the parties and the permit holder and hopefully we'll have that concluded in the next week. There was also an appeal of a building permit for 264 Dore Street. This was before the Planning Commission as a Discretionary Review request in June of last year. It's a two-story auto repair facility and SLI, Service Light Industrial zoning district. The back of it backs onto a live/work. And the people that were living in the live/work were complaining about the impacts on light and air to their property. Should be noted in the SLI zoning district no dwelling units are allowed, no residential uses are allowed, but that live/works were allow. This project was built out in the mid '90s. At the hearing, the Planning Commission voted to make, basically, a 45-degree chamfer at the rear of the property to give a bit more light and relief. At the hearing the appellants argued this was not enough and wanted further reduction in the second floor. There is also some discussion in their brief about putting a mural or something nice to look out at the rear of the auto repair facility. We noted that the property is not actually located to the east it's actually located to the northeast. So, impacts on light and air would be minimal. It's a narrow I think less than 25 feet wide property. The stage loft is a pretty massive building. They were also arguing it did not comply with Western Soma, but the current zoning is in effect and it does comply with the current zoning fully. So, with that, the Board voted unanimously to uphold the permit.  The last item that might be of interest was an appeal of a variance determination, or variance decision letter for 209 Prentiss and 1201 Cortland Street. Dan Sider was Acting Zoning Administrator on this item. It's in Bernal Heights, and it was variance for lot area and mass reduction, parking. All were granted except for the mass reduction variance. The Zoning Administrator did not find that there were findings sufficient to grant that variance and the Board of Appeals agreed with that. It was the permit holder or variance holder who had appealed that decision and the Board unanimously upheld that decision. I think now Mr. Sider continues his unanimous streak of wins at the Board of Appeals.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No Report