All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
1.2012.1122D(K. CONNER: (415) 575-6914)
246 2NDSTREET- south side between Howard and Folsom Streets; Lot 125 and 126 in Assessor’s Block 3735 -Mandatory Discretionary Review, pursuant to Planning Code Section 317(e), of Building Permit Application No. 2012.11.21.4720, proposing to merge units 1202 (Lot 125) and 1203 (Lot 126) in an existing 91 unit building within the C-3-O (SD) (Downtown Commercial, Downtown Office Special Development) Zoning District and 320-I Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve as Proposed
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve as Proposed
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Moore, Hillis,
NAYES:                        Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
DRA No.:          0302
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
2.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting for December 6, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting for December 13, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Moore, Hillis, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
3.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
We are all very encouraged, I think, by things that we have seen in the press, regarding the building boom, commercial and residential, unfortunately, we still see many individuals in our streets and parks who are incapacitated, and often need to be cared for, on an ongoing basis by our health officials, and there seem to be a revolving door of this care.  In regard to this, I received a phone call from a firefighter, a friend of mine and who introduced me to CaptainNiels Tangherliniand he has produced what I think it is an outstanding document, and is part of the public record for today. He proposes a plan of dealing with this situation, and I will be asking for the Commission to schedule a hearing to discuss, perhaps to get the Captain and others who are involved in the formulation of this document to discuss it. It proposes a solution to this problem with paramedics and other individuals from the Fire Department playing a large role in the triage system and I think it is outstanding. I think it will take a while for the public to read it and for Commissioners.  We do not need to make a decision about scheduling it today, but I will bring it up in the following weeks. I think it is a very important issue, and has been with us for decades.  I think there is a solution that is out there, I call your attention to the document in the public record and it is titled: San Francisco Plan for Dealing with Chronic Homelessness.
4.         Review and Approval of Combined Commission Secretary Position Announcement and Recruitment Process - Commissioner Antonini will present this item.
SPEAKERS:     Shawn Sherman (DHR), Sue Hestor
5.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Just to let you know, last week marked my five year anniversary in this position, and if you indulge me next week, I do have a few thoughts I would like to share with you about that milestone and about the lessons learned during the last five years.  I will do that next week.
Today, I just want to give you a couple of announcements regarding some upcoming public meetings, this week, Saturday, January 12, there will be a Public Scoping Meeting on the Sunnydale Master Plan at 10:00 am at the Sunnydale Community Room, 1652 Sunnydale Avenue. Saturday, January 12 at noon there is a Community Meeting on the Visitation Valley Schlage Lock Project, at the Ecology Environmental Center, 401 Toland Avenue, there has been a series of meetings with the neighbors on how to move forward with that plan. Tuesday, January 15, Public Scoping Meeting Piers 30-32 and Seawall Lot 330, Warriors Arena Project EIR, at 6:30 pm, at the Delancey Street Foundation, 600 The Embarcadero.
6.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE: None
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
INTRODUCTIONS:
BOARD OF APPEALS:
There are two items that I think might be of interest to the Commission today.  1) 2065 Oakdale Avenue is building permit application, the old Berkeley Farm property.  There was no notice required under the Planning Code or the Building Code because is an alteration permit.  Neighbors had concerned about the removal of the building, or a portion of the building. Appears that the building contractor did not operate or making the property in best fashion, so, there were concerns about the noise from working on the property. The property is an PDR 1B zoning district, so there is no notification.  The Board upheld the permit. 2) Appeal of Letter of Termination for 800 Brotherhood Way, this is the project that the Commission heard in 2005, it had a condition of approval, the decision is now voided, is there is lapse of three years or more in the authorization, they have several years of lawsuits since 2007, they have been working on getting the appropriate permits they have tentative map approval from DPW, they also submitted building permit to the Planning Department. So, the letter of termination found they were in compliance with that condition they have not lapsed on their authorization.  There was an appeal from neighbors concerned about the project.   They was not appeal of the CU and was approved by the Planning Commission in 2005, but there was an appeal of the environmental decision and also a lawsuit on the environmental decision.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
New Mission Theater – modifications were approved
Duboce Landmark District resolution was adopted by the HPC which will be on your calendar next Thursday.
Also, it marked the last hearing for Commissioner/President Chase, who will no longer be sitting on the HPC and during this interim period Commissioner Dan Kroger has moved into the role of  President of the HPC.