All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
4.2013.0476T(A. RODGERS 415.558.6395)
PLANNING CODE TEXT AMENDMENT CONCERNING MIXED USE-OFFICE (MUO) DISTRICT-The Planning Commission will consider initiation of a draft Ordinance that would amend the San Francisco Planning Code Section 842 and Section 842.49, of the Zoning Control Table, for the Mixed Use-Office District to  1) permit a tourist hotel use with Conditional Use Authorization without a specified room limit; and 2) making environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with General Plan and the Priority Policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution Authorizing an Adoption Hearing on or after June 6, 2013
SPEAKERS:     Toby Levine, Jim Meko, Steve Vettell
ACTION:After being pulled off Consent, Adopted a Resolution authorizing an Adoption Hearing on or after May 23, 2013 with alternatives to be considered by staff, with counsel from SF Travel and other tourist and hotel organizations, and brought before the Planning Commission
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis
NAYES:            Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
RESOLUTION:18854
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
5.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for April 18, 2013
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
6.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I just wanted to mention how pleased I was to hear that 52 UN Plaza is going to beoccupied by GSA again. About 625 Federal employees will be moving back into that building which has been refurbished, from what I understand, and I think they will be activating that part of the street in a very significant way.
Commissioner Antonini:
Couple of items, first I just want to report that the Subcommittee on the Secretary Search has been meeting and is considering the candidate pool that we have received, and we'll be trying to narrow it down to a number that, for which, we can make a decision, and that's basically what we've been doing. Much of this is in Closed Session because it is on employment issues. I did have another item. Last week I went to pick up my car, which had to have some work done on it at Larkin and Sutter Street. In fact, the fellow there has the only Chrysler servicing place in San Francisco for cheap Chrysler products. Regardless, the big issue is not about the car, but he said, “Can you help me?” And apparently he's been tagged every single night. In the past maybe once a week, every two weeks, and it's getting extremely expensive for him to clean up the front of his building because he does have a fairly intricate pattern of colors there and he has to get a painter in each time to clean it up. So, he indicated there was a store that opened across the street from him in the 1100 block of Sutter that is a graffiti store. It's not a hardware store, it’s not an art store, it is strictly a graffiti store selling products for illegal activities, which I don't quite understand why this is permitted. And their hours, from what I understand, are evenings and weekends only. So, they're catering specifically to the kinds of people that are often involved in graffiti that being sometimes youngsters, who are, only can come in the evening. And it's not always youngsters who do it, of course. So, I did make some inquiries through Planning and they're going to check with the Police Department as far as the handling of this because the other items that I have questions on is the handling of spray paints normally at most hardware stores, as you'll notice, the spray paints are restricted and they are often locked up or at least the attendant has to get it. You can't just self-serve yourself with those, for a reason. And I understand they're not to be sold to people under 18. I'm not sure if that's a City or State law, I've heard that. So, I’d kind of like the Planning Department to look into this. And there also was an article in C.W. Nevius’ column a couple of days before that regarding a similar situation on Sixth Street, where people were trying to clean up that part of the street and they were being besieged by being tagged every night. So, we spend millions of dollars cleaning this up privately and publicly and we also expect property owners at their own expense to clean it up, where we don't do too much about prosecuting the perpetrator. And also those kinds of businesses that might engage in the kind of sales of products for illegal activities.
Commissioner Sugaya:
Couple of things, last night I was at a reception for the opening of the Hallidie Building on Sutter Street. It's really a magnificent building. There was a brochure that was handed out. Director Rahaim was there and our Planning staff was there, Sophie. It was a wonderful reception and it was actually held not in the building, it was held across the street at the Crocker Galleria, where if you go up to the top floor you can access a public space, which I didn't even know was there. I'm familiar with the one that faces Market Street, which is used by a lot of people during lunchtime, but this one I wasn't aware of. But, if you go up there, you can see the building head on and you're up four stories or three stories. So, you can see the cresting in the upper part which has a lot of decorative features to it. I think everyone was very pleased. It sailed through Planning, as I understand, through the Historic Preservation Commission without issues. And everything was worked out. So, that was really great. My firm, we weren't the preservation architects, but we were the preservation architects, might blow my horn a little bit on the Pier 29 restoration project. Some of you may remember, Pier 29 had a fire about a year ago and destroyed the front part of the bulkhead part of the building, which faces The Embarcadaro. And, so, it was fast tracked through the Port and the City approval process and it was completed just the end of last week, I believe. And staff went over earlier this week to take a look at finished product. So, that one has also been completed. And then just a quickie to Planning staff, could we get a copy of the MTA Polk Street alternatives that were part of the community discussion earlier this week?  Thank you.
7.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
A couple things, as noted in your Director's Report, the recent Landmark District was created along Market Street of eight discontinuous buildings being called the Post 1906 Reconstruction Period Project Buildings on Market Street, That did go through the Board and took effect recently. It is a series of masonry buildings on Market Street that you supported as well as the Historic Preservation Commission. And that is now in effect and is the City's most recent Historic Landmark District. I was also going to mention the Polk Street Plans, that the MTA has prepared in response to some concerns by the community and by this Commission and we're happy to get you those plans as well. Lastly, just to announce that there is a Public Scoping Meeting on the Environmental Impact Report for the Central Corridor Area Plan, and that is to take place on Wednesday, May 15th at 6:00 P.M. At the Mendelson House, which is at 737 Folsom Street. Again, 6:00 P.M. May 15th, at 6:00 P.M. at the Mendelson House, Public Scoping Meeting for the EIR for the Central Corridor Area Plan.
8.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
No meeting
BOARD OF APPEALS:No meeting
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:No meeting