All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2012.1469C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
114 - 7thSTREET- southeast corner of Mission and 7thStreets, Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 3727 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization,under Planning Code Sections 844.93 and 303 for installation of a wireless telecommunications services facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The facility would consist of sixteen panel antennas split into four locations on the roof and facades.  The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 2 (Co-Location Site) within the Western SOMA Mixed Use-General (WMUG) Zoning District and 65-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     Tedi Vriheas
ACTION: After being pulled off of Consent, Approved with Conditions
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden,Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
NAYES:None
MOTION:M-18895
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
4.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for May 16, 2013;
·Draft Minutes for May 23, 2013 – Special Joint Hearing;and
·Draft Minutes for May 23, 2013 – Regular Hearing.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION: Adopted
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini,Borden,Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
NAYES:None
5.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I assume, we all received the media press release that the Board of Supervisors approved the first residential landmark District since 2003, that being the Victorian-era Duboce Park Landmark District. Congratulations to everybody who worked on it.  Wonderful project and I am really glad that we are moving in that direction.
Commissioner Borden:
I went to a discussion a couple of weeks ago about urban ventures startups that are working and I learned about an organization called Fundrise working in Washington D.C. and is talking to local developers.  And the concept is that individuals in the community can contribute as little as one hundred dollars to invest in real estate.  What they are doing is reaching out to underserved communities, helping those community members buy into real estate, like a community market or a small building as an investor and obviously they want that in their community.  I just thought it was an interesting model for fundraising in real estate because it allows the people in a local community to be vested in the projects that are being developed and built because they are actual investors and they are actually part of the process for determining those projects.  I know that there are some people looking at it locally, it’s been working in Washington D.C. on a couple of projects.  One of the projects raises as much as six hundred and some thousands of dollars for a market in a small building, and so I think it is an interesting idea that would be great to explore here in San Francisco.
Commissioner Antonini:
A couple of items, this last week I read with interest that the Mayor’s Office of Housing is trying to inquire as to its recipients of family housing as to whether they are a San Francisco resident or not and I think this is totally appropriate. We have a lot of people in this City who are residents who should have the priority of being housed before people who come from somewhere else to avail themselves of this housing. It certainly is a move in the right direction to try to ascertain residency of the people who are in need.  So, I am very supportive of that policy.  Also, another issue that came up, kind of surprisingly, was one of the things we are always talking about, how formula retail supports local, the moneys come back in the community and they are not taken away and spent nationally or in other counties.  I happen to be at a store I patronize the other day and the owner operator was there, and it’s a great little store happens to be bookstore, and I am very supportive that he does have a bookstore and it is an independent, it’s one of only one.  And the woman ahead of me had asked if he had seen the Great Gatsby right across the street and he said no, I live in Marin and whenever I am done here I get out of here as soon as I can, I spend almost no time in the City other than when I am running my store, which I thought was not really a good way to build your business, and I didn’t comment on it, but it was interesting that even independents there is no assurance that independents are going to be City residents or even going to patronize other businesses in San Francisco, so I’d be interested in seeing a study that really quantifies this belief that locally owned independent businesses, fewer than nine outlets nationally, spend more money within the community than do independents with fewer outlets.
Commissioner Moore:
I want to ask the Director, I got an email from the AIA saying that they are sponsoring a competition for the 280 freeway and I was kind of wondering if you’re being asked for advisory on this, I found, I think this is a good idea, a little bit premature.  Particularly, I think, first, this involves the Planning Department and all of the considerations regarding land use and circulation. I just hope you will cast a guiding eye on that.
6.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Commissioners the only announcement I wanted to make is that, it’s noted in your Director’s Report today, is that we’re having a workshop on the Central Corridor Draft Plan next Wednesday the 12thfrom six to seven at the Mendelson House on Folsom Street.  We are proposing to have, at the suggestion of the community, we are proposing to have a series of topic based discussions on the Plan over the coming year and this first meeting will be to decide what those topics should be and so we will be inviting the community to this session, again, 6:00 to 7:30 at the Mendelson House, which is at 777 Folsom Street, on June 12thand that concludes my report.
7.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
Land Use Committee:
Supervisor Weiner ped safety legislation (Items 1-5)
Multiple pieces of legislation that would:
1.Create an interagency Street Design Review Committee made up of Planning, SFMTA, DPW, SFPUC, OEWD, and Fire Department to review street improvement projects against established City policies, such as the Transit-First Policy and the Better Streets Plan
2.Create a Public Improvement Permit  (for instance for in-kind infrastructure) that would enable the DPW Director to administratively accept public improvements built by third-party developers in the right-of-way, if accompanied by a maintenance endowment (bypasses the need for major encroachment permit and gift acceptance by Board of Supervisors).
3.Change to Fire Code to clarify that unobstructed curb extensions (things like a bulbout without trees or poles) would not count against the 20 foot minimum clear width required by the Fire Code
Planning staff gave an overview of the Better Streets Plan (2010), and the Controller’s Office Better Streets Plan study (2011), which analyzed and made recommendations for how the City could improve its process for delivering and permitting street improvements. Controller’s Office staff presented recommendations from the study, including the recommendation to create a Street Design Review Committee, as proposed by this legislation.
Supervisor Kim suggested adding “other departments as necessary” to the Street Design Review Committee, specifically citing Successor Agency and SFCTA. Supervisor Weiner accepted this modification.
The Fire Department discussed their operational needs in light of the proposed change to the Fire Code. Patrick Seigman, a principal with Nelson/Nygaard, discussed national trends in working with emergency services to reform Fire Code standards.  There was significant public comment in relation to the need to change the Fire Code as proposed in relation to the proposed street improvement project on Bartlett Street, site of the Mission Community Market.All pieces of legislation were passed, as amended, with positive recommendation to the Full Board.
Full Board of Supervisors:
·130180 Pre-Application Meetings Required in PDR-1B.PC approved on May 9. Board approved on first reading this week.
·111278 Art & Design SUD 1111 8thStreet.This ordinance would create an SUD to allow educational institutions without use size limits; to permit student housing; and to allow the ZA to authorize temporary structures without a public hearing for property currently occupied by the California College of Arts.  This ordinance was recommended for approval by this Commission on April 25.Board approved on 1streading.
·130070 Duboce Park Historic District.  Sponsored by Supe. W.This recommendation by the HPC to create a new historic district was considered and unanimously approved by the BOS on first reading this week.Passed final reading.
Introductions:
·130549 Planning Code—Controller’s Report.Ordinance amending the Planning Code to modify when the Controller is required to issue various reports and making environmental findings, and findings of consistency with General Plan.Mayor Lee.
·130462 Business and Tax Regulations Code - Public Realm Landscaping, Improvement, and Maintenance Assessment Districts.Ordinance would provide for establishment of assessment districts to finance landscaping, improvements, and maintenance of public realm areas (outdoor spaces open to the public), including parks, parklets, sidewalks, landscaped areas, plazas, and gardens; to authorize the purchase of real property with assessment funds, where property will be a public realm area and the district will provide landscaping, improvements and/or maintenance.Cohen.
Board of Appeals:
The Board of Appeals did meet last night, briefly.  There were two items that may of interest to the Commission.  The first was an appeal of 349 Banks, this was a DR the Commission heard several months ago.  Last month the Board of Appeals heard it, unanimously upheld the Commission’s decision, a rehearing request was filed, and last night the Board unanimously rejected that rehearing request, saying there was no new information.  The other item is a notice of violation and penalty that I issued for 264 Dolores Street.  This was an illegal commercial use out of a dwelling unit.  The commercial use included a juicing operation.  They were selling juices and having yoga classes there, and they were renting out the kitchen in the dwelling unit for people to have parties.  The Board unanimously upheld that notice of violation penalty last night.  It had originally been scheduled for the April 10th, but the appellant did not submit any brief at that hearing, they wanted a continuance again last night, they still did not submit any briefing materials again and requested another rescheduling again last night, but the Board found that they had enough time to submit materials and did not grant that rescheduling request, but they do also have the rehearing process available to them, that is all, I am available for any questions.
Historic Preservation Commission:
The Historic Preservation Commission approved two Certificates of Appropriateness for restoration of circa 1880’s buildings within both the Alamo Square Historic District and the Dogpatch Landmark District.  The Commission added a few additional conditions of approval to the restoration of the residential property on Fulton Street within the Alamo Square Landmark District siting that there would likely be more reconstruction that would have to occur based on historic photographs.  The Commission also approved a Major Permit to Altar for work along the Stevenson Alley side of the San Francisco Mart.  This is to, as you know, is where Twitter now has its head offices.  The work is to prepare the ground floor for commercial retail tenants that are slowly starting to move into the property.  The Commission also approved a new lobby entrance on 731 Market Street.  The reason I bring this one up is there was a good deal of opposition from the residents of the Four Seasons Hotel and Tower that uses Stevenson Alley as an egress to their parking facility.  The opposers were concerned about traffic and congestion along Stevenson and cited concerns over the staff’s level of analysis under CEQA. Staff did communicate to both the Project Sponsor and the Commission that our CEQA analysis was complete and appropriate for that project and based on that information the HPC unanimously approved the construction of that new lobby on the Stevenson Alley side of 731 Market Street.  The HPC also approved a Certificate of Appropriateness for a very large renovation project in Grace Cathedral.  The entire front entry stairs are going to be reconstructed due to water abatement issues in the underground parking facility.  The Commission approved that project with conditions as outlined by staff.  Then finally, staff gave an update on the condition of the Shipwright’s Cottage.  This is at 900 Innes Street, it’s been in the paper recently as  a property the City is interested in acquiring through the Recreation & Parks Department.  Again, it’s a much larger parcel along the waterfront that contains a very small landmark structure.  The good new is the current property owner has obtained a permit and has completed work to install a new roof on the building so it is protected from the elements and the Planning Department and Recreation & Parks are continuing to stay in touch with each other as the acquisition of the property moves forward and we can keep you updated on the plans for that location once they are developed.
8.2004.0976CV(R. CRAWFORD: (415) 558-6358)
376 CASTRO STREET- west side of Castro Street, at the northwest corner of Castro and Market Streets; Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 2623 -Informational Presentationon a 6-story, 65 foot tall mixed-use building with 24 dwelling units and 3,000 square feet of ground floor commercial space within the Upper Market Neighborhood Commercial District and 65-B Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  None - Informational
SPEAKERS:     Mitchell Benjamin, David Warczak, Judith Hoyem
ACTION:           None- Informational