All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
6.2017-009773CUA(L. AJELLO-HOAGLAND: (415) 575-6823)2573-2575 3RD STREET– east side of 3rd Street, between 22nd and 23rd Streets; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 4173 (District 10) – Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.1, 249.37, 303 and 843.45 for the expansion of an existing gymnasium (dba Dogpatch Builders) in the Innovative Industries Special Use District located at 2573-2575 3rd.Street The project site is located within the PDR-1-G (Production, Distribution and Repair - 1, General) Zoning District, and 68-X/85-X Height and Bulk Districts. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
7.2017-009207CUA(E. SAMONSKY: (415) 575-9112)500 CHURCH STREET– southwest corner of the intersection of Church and 17th Streets; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 3580 (District 8) - Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 186 to allow a change of use from retail sale and service (laundromat) to restaurant (dba “Butter and Saltz”) within the RM-2 (Residential-Mixed, Moderate Density) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This project was reviewed under the Community Business Priority Processing Program (CB3P).  This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
8.  Consideration of Adoption:
9. Commission Comments/Questions
Commissioner Moore:I believe that gas stations, their equal locations throughout neighborhoods, is a critical policy issue. I’d like to see that the Department gives us an overview about where gas stations are, how many there are and if any of those gas stations are under consideration of closure. I think we're getting into a critical numerical thing here, particularly at night when gas stations are quite far away from those people who may need gas at later hours it becomes often a difficult issue to find one. I’d like to put the issue of laundromats also on that discussion. San Francisco is, in many neighborhoods wood frame construction, two and three stories where it really is impossible to ask unit occupants, residents or owners to put washing machines on upper floors because the structure of those buildings are just not built to accommodate washing machines and dryers. So I'd kind of like to see we’re getting a better understanding of an equal distribution where those facilities are. We do not have to make policy out of it but I'd like to get an overview of where critical infrastructure in the City is that is built the way it is not the way we want it to be.
President Hillis:Thank you. We’ll add those items to our action item lists.
Commissioner Richards:Along the same lines of Commissioner Moore saying, I recall back in the Market-Octavia Planning process where we had all these gas stations in the Upper Market, pretty much on every corner, it was almost like a suburban neighborhood, which it kind of read as and there was somebody from the neighborhood who said what happens when all the gas stations go away? I kind of laughed, I was like you're crazy they’re not all going away, there still be cars and there still going to be gas stations and we've been seeing this over and over week after week month after month. We started with 79 gas stations when I started on the commission; I don't how many we have left, whether it’s 40 or 50 or 60, but I also think that it not only becomes an issue of a complete city with the kind of services that required to keep the city functioning, but also becomes for me a social equity issue because now there are times that I'm driving in somebody else's neighborhood, polluting all along the way and stopping in that neighborhood where there's still a gas station and generally in a community of concern that I trek into their neighborhood to get my gas, I don’t think it's that fair; same with laundromats. I pulled number seven off the calendar because here we have another laundromat going out of business and I too share Commissioner Moore’s concern that not everybody can afford to have a delivery service to do their laundry, not everybody could afford to actually get up and down the steps physically or have somebody to do their laundry for them when they go in the neighborhood. I'm worried as well about laundromats and I’ll add a weird one to the list, funeral homes. You can't drive your car, you can't clean your clothes and you can't die apparently in this city, that’s where we're going because pretty soon we'll have no more funeral homes either and I'll just get that out there. Interestingly enough along the same lines while we were on break, Tuesday November 21st, J.K. Dineen wrote an article on the front page of the Chronicle about retail spaces and what's happening with retail spaces. It's interesting because it is not all doom and gloom. There are places in this city where you go they have a thriving retailing environment, Divisidero Street, to most extent Valencia Street; there's place where you go in the City there's dying retail environments or some retail environments that actually throw me back to 2008 and 2009 when we were in the midst of a deep recession; my neighborhood, Castro and Upper Market reminds me of that. He also talks about in the article ways that we can actually fill these spaces up; it's not all, let's get rid of the new urbanism and put housing on all the ground floors. He cites a few success cases like Equity in their three developments, one on Showplace Square another one over there at 1010 Potrero where they’ve already signed 11 leases. So I think we’re willing to take a look at this, I know it’s on our action item list, this whole concept of retail. We’ve got some heavy lifts happening now with Section 317 and some other things but I think maybe next year working with the President or through the Chair and staff, these are some things we really need to kind of bring to the forefront and make some decisions on and figure out what we want to do with these things in the city.
Commissioner Fong:I also want to comment on the gas stations; while I think we all have a goal of maybe having no fossil fuel vehicles in the City at some point, that will be a little bit while and if we can just make sure we have gas stations to get us topped off at least until we get to that point and also making a point that we are a tourist city and there are many people who come into San Francisco with fossil fuel cars and chasing off to different parts of neighborhoods, different parts of the city looking for gas maybe not the best thing. So I think we just want a counting of where we are now and how many more we plan to lose in a five, seven-year outlook on that is.
Commissioner Richards:One other fact, there's another article in the Examiner about on charging stations and it showed different cities in the Bay Area by the amount of cars that are sold new that are electric and San Francisco, I think, ranked almost last at three percent. We still have 97 percent of cars that are not hybrid or electric being sold.
Commissioner Johnson:I was going to say the same thing and I don’t think we could discuss this, hopefully, I won’t say too much. I think gas stations will likely change their purpose just like a lot of the parking spots and parking structures that we have in our city, both residential and stand alone; so I think gas stations are a part of that sort of transformation to San Francisco. So it’s not necessarily about getting rid of them, it may not be, maybe about shrinking them and finding out what is their future purpose.