SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, July 24, 2014
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT WU AT 12: 05 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Erika Jackson, Marcelle Boudreaux, Omar Masry, Elizabeth Watty, Aaron Starr, Mary Woods, Diego Sanchez, Tina Chang, Pilar LaValley, Doug Vu, Sharon Lai, and Jonas P. Ionin – Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition.
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1.2013.1554C(M. BOUDREAUX: (415) 575-9140)
9 WEST PORTAL AVENUE- cross streets Ulloa and Vicente; Lot 029 in Assessor’s Block 2979ARequest for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 729.43, to allow change of use from medical office use to a Limited Restaurant café (with ABC Type 20 off-sale license) and to allow expansion of an existing wine bar use (d.b.a Vin Debut with an existing ABC Type 42 license) into new storefront space, within the West Portal Avenue NCD (Neighborhood Commercial District) and 26-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
(Proposed for Continuance to August 7, 2014)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to August 7, 2014
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing.
2.2014.0439Q(E. JACKSON: (415) 558-6363)
18-28 CLYDE STREET- cross street Townsend Street; Lot 017 in Assessor’s Block 3787- Request for Condominium Conversion Subdivisionto convert a three-story, six-unit building into residential condominiums within an SLI (Service Light Industrial) Zoning District and 65-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:19195
3.2014.0508C(M. BOUDREAUX: (415) 575-9140)
3911 ALEMANY BOULEVARD- cross streets Saint Charles and Worcester Avenues; Lot 123 in Assessor’s Block 7126A-Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Section 303 and 713.61, to allow change of use from personal service use to an Auto Rental use (d.b.a. Hertz) within the NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial, Shopping Center) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:19196
4.2014.0634C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
999 LAGUNA STREET-at the southwest corner of Laguna Street and Golden Gate Avenue, Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 0771 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.6(b) and 303 to allow a wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The proposed macro WTS facility would feature twelve (12) panel antennas mounted behind a faux mechanical penthouse expansion, on the roof of an existing four-story residential building. Related electronic equipment would be located on the roof and ground floor in an enclosed equipment shelter. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 7 Site (Disfavored Location) within an RM-2 (Residential-Mixed, Moderate Density) Zoning District, and a 50-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:19197
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
5.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for July 10, 2014
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
6.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I'm sure everyone has read it, I was kind of upset reading last night that the Flower Mart sold for $27 million or something, but what was disturbing to me is that there are104 businesses, which did not have anyidea. I regret that and I hope that the Department will closely monitor what next steps are intended.
Commissioner Antonini:
Yeah, I have a couple of items. I agree with Commissioner Moore, I also heard of that and I was very involved with the last time and was helpful in keeping it from being acquired at that time by the Academy of Art University. Certainly will look into this and find out, are there accommodations being made for the relocation of that facility, if in fact it is used for other purposes. Certainly I would encourage that, because it is an asset to San Francisco and lot of the businesses are doing extremely well and it is historical, and you know - - we'll work on that one. Couple of other matters, first of all, thank you to Commissioner Sugaya for many years of services and this could be his last meeting, but we will miss him a lot and I want to acknowledge his service to the City and just sitting next to him. [Clapping] My final item is kind of an unfortunate incident, I hate to bring it up, but I think the public should be aware of what happened out on the streets.Last Tuesday night my wife and I were meeting a couple at Locanda for dinner on Valencia Street, and I suggested that we take public transportation. I meet her at the BART Station, 16thand Mission, she didn’t really want to get off on that station for a lot reasons that people know about. I said okay, why don’t you pick me up I'll take Muni to my office and then we’ll take a car, and we did find a parking place on Guerrero, and we had to walk about a block and half along Guerrero and then 16th. We get halfway, between Guerrero and Valencia, a panhandler, a street person,gets right in our path of where we were walking and, you know, is asking for things, not moving, I politely ask him to move, he didn't move. Finally, I yelled at him, told him to get out of my way, and I yelled loud enough and forcefully enough that he did move, and then another one,a woman, popped up, got in myface again, and she said, “Don't yell at my people. We belong here, you don't. This is our land. We don’t want you here.” So that was very disturbing and I wonder where they get these ideas, but they’re certainly misguided, and I would encourage the Mission District to look intoa community benefits district to try to take some control of the streets. I know you are only a block away from Mission Station, but the officers there are busy with more serious matters most of the time and they don’t have enough manpower to patrol the neighborhoods, but I feel sorry for someone, who is not from San Francisco, some of our tourists, some our guests from out of town, and have that kind of thing happen to them. They probably wouldn't be coming back and you read all about it in the paper, when people are accosted by aggressive panhandlers and others, sometimes much worse than what happened to us, and we lose a lot of our reputation and a lot of our business, because of this kind of behavior, and I think it has to be controlled.
Commissioner Sugaya:
Thank you. Just to start on the Flower Mart for a minute, the Commission did go through a lot of hearings, I believe, on the last time the Flower Mart was up for sale or being purchased and got feedback, so to speak.But, I think, the complicating factor here for which I don’t have any information, I don’t know if it is public, is that the Flower Mart is not one monolithic place, there is a Japanese American owned portion of it, I think it’s ownership, I am not sure, how that works. The last time they were not involved in the Academy of Art situation, as I understood it. So, I don't know what the situation is there, but it's probably more complicated than we think. In any case, this is my last meeting probably. I've served as a Planning Commissioner for eight years, proudly, I hope, and tried to bring some objectivity to all my reading and decision making. There were a few indiscretions along the way that some of you probably know about, some of you may not. You can Google it and find out. [Laughter] Made better friends with Supervisor Kim and Alioto-Pier in the process, anyway, that's water under the bridge. I think objectivity wise, is one word to use, but I think it’s also kind of like to characterize it as not a balanced approach, but an unbalanced in somewhat, try to bring advocacy here and there.And I think the staff can bring us things that say on balance, but I think they're kind of forced into doing that, one way or the other, but I think as commissioners we should be on the lookout for interests that, I think, we have passions for, that we believe in strongly. I know certain commissioners like Commissioner Moore is very strong on urban design and architecture, Commissioner Wu in housing, etc.So, I don't have a lot to say other than maybe to leave some comments about some things that I've gone through that I think the Commission still probably should consider giving some attention to.One is discretionary review reform. We went through a year or two of trying to figure out what to do with that. I believe that at that time, I was a strong anti-DRperson, butI've come around now to thinking that it's something that the City has that’s uniquein the Stateand maybe in the Nation, but I think the Planning Commission is the wrong place to have the decision making done. I advocated at that time for a hearings officer, sort of like the Zoning Administrator, who I believe does a good job and has done over the years or maybe a smaller committee of some kind, or maybe a three person panel. Anyway, I just throw that out. I also think that we need to extend and continue to be vigilant about the loss of PDR spaces in the City. That goes along with trying to protect the Western SOMA Plan and see how that can be balanced against the onslaught of the Central Corridor Plan, and lastly one of my passions, historic preservation and cultural preservation which is morphed into now, cultural preservation, a slightly different word, but we went through many, many years of hearings on the Japantown Better Neighborhood Plan. That was morphed into the JCHESS program, which is mainly a cultural resource oriented document, that document I think forms the basis now for other discussions going on in the LGBT world and also in the Latino community and the Filipino community. So, I hope those things will continue and that the Planning Commission will continue to support the work of the Historic Preservation Commission. Lastly, I would like to thank the Planning staff. They do a tremendous amount of work, and I think, this Commission couldn't get along with – well, we could get along without all the stuff here, but you know – I guess we are forced into that partially by the rules and regulations, but I’d like to thank staff for all the support that I've received from them over the years.
Commissioner Fong:
I'd like to offer my thank you and congratulations to you. I don't think this Commission necessarily is supposed to agree, and I think the way it is set up we're supposed to offer commentary and points of view and perspectives as you mentioned, so, I appreciate that. I learned a lot from you. You’ve opened the door to my eyes in different aspects of the City. I just want to comment on your level and line of questioning sometimes, it's very thorough, very unique, coming from a different perspective and really your attention to details.It's been great sitting here for five years out of your eight with you and good luck going forward.
Commissioner Wu:
I also want to thank you, Commissioner Sugaya, all of your service at the Planning Commission, Board of Appeals, Landmarks and although, maybe sometimes your comments may be unfiltered, I think it's really quite a breath of fresh air, I think many on commissions or in the public eye can be very or overly careful and I think there was never any doubt of what you were saying, you really believed and you really meant and that you were being thoughtful about it, so again, I wish you the best in your future endeavors and we may see you back in City Hall again.
Commissioner Moore:
Having sat next to Commissioner Sugaya eight years, there is more than just having a wonderful informed voice sitting next to me, but there are also just a great appreciation for the thoroughness in this profession for everything that he has made us aware of and before we really had the historic preservation fully established, he was always reminding us of that important aspect.I've learned a lot, I will miss you a great deal, and I refer to him as my comrade-in-arms.
Commissioner Hillis:
Just really quick, I have only being in the Commission a couple years, but I've learned a lot from Bill and appreciate how direct he is and we know where he stands. For those that don't followplanning and maybe follow baseball, it’s like Derrek Jeter leaving, retiring from baseball.Bill’s been on for a long time and has made a big impact, so thank you Bill.
Jonas Ionin, Commission Secretary:
If I may also, Bill I’d to wish you all the best in your future endeavors, and Commissioner Johnson welcome.
7.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Thank you, Jonas. Commissioner Sugaya, and on behalf of staff, thank you for all your service, both on the Planning Commission and the Board of Appeals. It's been really educational for me and the staff; I think we've really appreciated your attention to detail, and your commitment to the work, and so thank you for that. Secondly, I just wanted to let you know, with respect to the Flower Mart site, Commissioner Sugaya is right, there are three major owners of the site, three separate ownership groups, if you will. The announcement that was in the paper was the purchase of two of those three. So what is – and then there was – there has been a separate purchase that was not publicly announced of the other major parcel by a different owner, by a different buyer, I should say. So there is a lot of discussion going on, we are organizing the meetings as well and one of the discussion points is whether all or part of the functions can remain there or should be relocated and that sort of thing. So we are staying on top of this as well and we will report back to you as we can on that issue. Lastly, I just wanted to report to you, the good news that this morning the Mayor signed the legislation on the Schlage Lock site to allow that project to move forward. There was a signing ceremony that involved several members of the community who had been working on this for the better part of 15 years, so at long last, with the dissolution of the Redevelopment Agency as you all know, that threw us all for a loop several years ago and we were able to regroup and make that project move forward, so we are very pleased that that is now law and that project will hopefully, move forward within a year or so. That concludes my presentation.
8.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·Planning Code - Rezoning McCoppin Plaza to Public Use/Open Space Zoning. Sponsor: Kim.This Ordinance rezones McCoppin Street west of Valencia and terminating at Highway 101 from NCT-3 to P/OS for the new McCopping Hub Plaza, one of the first plazas to be considered for the new SF Plaza program and currently under construction.The Planning Commission heard this item June 14, 2014 and unanimously recommended approval.  At the Land Use hearing, there was no public comment on the proposed Ordinance.  Sup Kim proposed two minor amendments to correct a typo in the proposed Ordinance and to clarify the terminus of the Plaza as being at the intersection of McCoppin Street and Highway 101.  Sup Kim also made the motion to move the proposed Ordinance to the Full Board of Supervisors with a positive recommendation and the motion was seconded by Sup Cohen.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
Four Items received their Second Read and Passed a the Board this week, those were
·140593 Planning Code - Fee Elimination.Sponsor: Mayor.This item eliminates four Planning Code fees.The Ordinance passed its second read at the Board this week.
·140235 Administrative Code - Information from Project Sponsors Regarding Their Anti-Discriminatory Housing Policies.Passed its second read.
·(2 Items in One) 140675 General Plan and Planning Code Amendments for Visitation Valley/Schlage Lock.These two items are intended to implement the Visitation Valley/Schlage Lock plan that was previously under the jurisdiction of the Redevelopment Agency. Passed Second reads.
·140809 Zoning - Interim Moratorium on Change of Institutional Use in a Portion of the University Mound Neighborhood.This interim control introduced by Supervisor Campos last week, and it did not go before the Land Use Committee for review.Instead the Board sat as a committee of the whole and took public comment on the proposed Resolution that would place a 45-day moratorium on changes to institutional use in the University Mound neighborhood, located in the southeastern part of the City.This Resolution is intended to specifically address the proposed closure of the University Mount Ladies Home, and its possible conversion to a private school.About 12 people came out to speak about the proposed Ordinance, and most of the public comment was in favor of the interim controls and the preservation of the University Mount Ladies Home as an assisted living facility for low income seniors.Supervisor Campos also spoke of the need to preserve this use in his remarks.The Board voted unanimously to approve the resolution.
INTRODUCTIONS:
·No Introductions this week.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
Scott Sanchez:
Board of Appeals did meet last night; one item that may be of interest to the Commission was an appeal of a public health permit for a MCD at 1545 Ocean Avenue. This is relevant to the Commission because it effects the approval process for another MCD that’s within 500 feet of this location that's been before you several times over the past few months. It’s currently on calendar for September 11th. Last night the Board requested additional information, continued the item to October 29th, so I would assume that we’ll be rescheduling this item again, further probably in November, but we'll discuss that with staff. Other items, President Chiu nominated Bobby Wilson to the Board of Appeals, the seat that’s being vacated by Chris Wang. So last night was Commissioner Wang’s last meeting, she – actually was president for about two years in the Board of Appeals and we really appreciated her leadership that she had on the Board of Appeals. I think she was a great voice and will be missed and I also wanted to add my sentiments about Commissioner Sugaya, definitely will miss you, your sense of humor, your great voice on the Commission, appreciated serving with you and also the experience that you bring here with past service on Landmarks and on Board of Appeals, it is a quite record. I think Frank Fung might be envious, so thank you.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No Report
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:Elgin Park – Short Term rentals, Airbnb
John Elberling – Flower Mart
Sue Hestor – Flower Mart, Prop M
Henry Karnilowicz – Flower Mart
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
9.2013.0154EKRVX(E. WATTY: (415) 558-6620)
747 HOWARD STREET (aka MOSCONE CENTER EXPANSION PROJECT)- on Howard Street between Third and Fourth Streets; Lot 091 in Assessor's Block 3734 -Informational Presentationon the Moscone Center Expansion Project, which consists of below grade expansion of the convention center’s exhibition halls, above grade expansion of Moscone North, South, and Esplanade Ballroom, construction of two pedestrian bridges over Howard Street, improvements to the Yerba Buena Children’s Garden Improvements, and public realm improvements throughout and adjacent to the site. The property is located in the C-3-S (Downtown Support) Zoning District and 340-I Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  None – Informational
SPEAKERS:+ Edgar Lopez, Introductory comments
+ Craig Hartman, SOM – Moscone presentation
+ Andrew Robinson – Vital, vibrant Moscone Center, critical to the neighborhood,public realm improvements
= Sonja Kos – Pedestrian safety, traffic analysis
= Alice Light – Greenwall
+ Karen Karl – Hotel industry
+ (F) Speaker – Senior residents directly across the streets, pedestrian safety
+ Henry Karnilowicz – Support
+ Jim Lazarus – Good project
+ John Elberling – Pedestrian safety improvements, widening of 4thStreet sidewalk
= Sue Hestor – Howard Street closure impacts, traffic control
+ John Ballesteros – Response to questions
ACTION:None – Informational
10.2013.0647T(A. STARR: (415) 558-6362)
INTENTION TO INITIATE DEPARTMENT-SPONSORED PLANNING CODE AMENDMENTS RELATED TO Consolidateing Definitions, Reorganize Article 2, and Make Other Nonsubstantive Changes to Update, Clarify, and Simplify Code Language–Pursuant to Planning Code Section 302, the Planning Commission willconsider a Resolutionof Intention to initiate amendments to the Planning Code. The amendments are intended to consolidate definitions into Section 102 and reorganize Article 2 to create Zoning Control Tables and make other non-substantive changes in order to update, clarify, and simplify Code language; and affirming the Planning Department’s California Environmental Quality Act determination and making findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve a Draft Resolution of Intention to initiate amendments to the Planning Code and schedule a public hearing to consider the amendments no sooner than September 4, 2014.
SPEAKERS:- Bernie Chodin – Density increases
-Rose Hilson – Naming, noticing, Superior Court
-Hiroshi Fukuda – No one knows about this, more outreach, more meetings
ACTION:Initiated and scheduled a hearing on October 16, 2014
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Sugaya
ABSENT:Wu, Moore
RESOLUTION:19198
11.2013.0494CE(M. WOODS: (415) 558-6315)
233 MAPLE STREET (AKA 3839 WASHINGTON STREET)–west side between Clay and Washington Streets; Lots 002 and 034 in Assessor’s Block 0992 –Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.3(g), 303 and 317 to allow the conversion of a dwelling unit (on Lot 002) to a private elementary and middle school (Presidio Hill School), and to modify Planning Commission Motion Nos. 17159, and 15031 as modified by Board of Supervisors Motion No. M00-54 for Case No. 99.385C. The student enrollment would increase from 200 to up to 240 students, within a RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Supervisor Mark Farrell – Recognition of the community, sponsor and staff
+ Ethan Weiss – Recognizing Supervisor Farrell
+ Scott Guillon – Project presentation
+ Toby Morris – Project design
+ Ron Blandman – PHAN support
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Sugaya
ABSENT:Moore
MOTION:19199
12a.2012.0793KX(D. Sanchez: (415) 575-9082)
346 POTRERO AVENUE- west side between 16thand 17thStreets; Lot 008 in Assessor’s Block 3962-Request for Adoption of Findingspursuant to Section 295 of the Planning Code regarding a Shadow Study that concluded that the shadow cast by the construction of a nine-story building, approximately 88,100 square feet in total, with up to 70 dwelling units and approximately 1,600 square feet of ground floor retail  would not be adverse to the use of Franklin Square, land under the jurisdiction of the San Francisco Recreation and Park Department. The property is within a UMU (Urban Mixed Use) District and an 85-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt Findings
SPEAKERS:+ Kate Diamond – Project presentation
+ Architect - Project design
+ Joline Yee – Supporters of Franklin Park
+ Kron Sennet – Support
+ (M) Speaker on behalf of a Mr. Wong – Support
+ Anthony Urbina – Union support
+ Dale Hernandez – Union support
-Mica Rengal – 101.1 General Plan findings
+ Peter Garza – Union support
+ Tim Colen – Support
+ (F) Speaker – Shadow on parks
+ Joe Coppel – Support
+ (M) Speaker – Support
ACTION:Adopted Findings
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:19200
12b.2012.0793KX(D. Sanchez: (415) 575-9082)
346 POTRERO AVENUE– west side between 16thand 17thStreets; Lot 008 in Assessor’s Block 3962–Request for Large Project Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Section 329 to construct a nine-story building, approximately 88,100 square feet in total, with up to 70 dwelling units and approximately 1,600 square feet of ground floor retail.  The project is seeking exceptions, pursuant to Planning Code Section 329, from the Rear Yard requirement (Planning Code Section 134), the Useable Open Space requirement (Planning Code Section 135), the Useable Open Space for Uses Other Than Dwelling Units requirement (Planning Code Section 135.3), the Dwelling Unit Exposure requirement (Planning Code Section 140) and the Street Frontages requirement (Planning Code Section 145.1).  The project is within the Urban Mixed Use (UMU) Zoning District and 85-X Height and Bulk District.  This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions as Amended, Adopting the MMRP
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:19201
13.2013.1626C(E. JACKSON: (415) 558-6363)
1257 GUERRERO STREET– east side between 24thand 25thStreets; Lot 015 in Assessor’s Block 6513–Requestfor Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 216(c), 209.2(d) and 303,to legalize an existing hotel use (dba Noe’s Nest Bed and Breakfast) for no more than five rooms or suites of rooms per Planning Code Sections 216(c), 209.2(d) and 303 within an existing single-family dwelling.The project proposes no interior or exterior changes to the existing building.The property is located within an RH-3 (Residential-House, Three-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ David Silverman – Project presentation
+ Nick Bologne – Noe’s Nest
+ Denise D’Anna – Noe’s Nest
+ Jean Claude – Cornoier – world class Airbnb
+ (M) Speaker – Outstanding member of the community
+ Eileen Hendrick – Asset to the neighborhood
+ John-Tom Snorwick – Loss to the community if the business is lost
+ Cindy Thompson – Hotel amenities and services
+ Adria Briar – Outstanding member of the community
+ Ellen Levine – Breakfast chef
+ Rebecca Winkler – Design work, owner
+ David Growth – Support
+ Kendra Sutherland – Support
+ Gretta Gordong – Support
+ Margarite Heiser – Support
+ Richard Gayle – Support
+ Paula Rebruse – Support
+ Margarita Popova – Support
+ Rodrigo Santos – Structurally sound
+ Robert Altman – A true treasure
+ Elana Rosenfeld – Support
+ Ken Hansen – Asset to the City
+ John Milestone – Support
+ Henry Karnilowicz – Support
+ Mindy Kantor – Support
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:19202
14.2013.1859C(T. CHANG: (415) 575-9197)
1501 SLOAT BOULEVARD (LAKESHORE PLAZA)–The project site is located at 1501 Sloat Boulevard within the Lakeshore Plaza Shopping Center, south side of the street betweenEverglade and Clearfield Drives–Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 703.4,to establish a formula retail limited-restaurant (d.b.a. Subway) in the 810 square-foot tenant space occupied by Quizno’s formula retail limited-restaurant located within a NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial, Shopping Center) District, the Lakshore Plaza Special Use District and 26-40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Jeremy Paul – Project presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Sugaya
ABSENT:Moore
MOTION:19203
15.2014.0505C(P. LAVALLEY: (415) 575-9084)
581 MARKET STREET (AKA 88 STEVENSON STREET)- south side between 1stand 2ndStreets; Lot 044 in Assessor’s Block 3708-Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 219(d) and 303, to allow professional and business offices that are not open to the public below the ground floor of the existing 3-story-over-basement building. The basement office space will be accessed from the rear of the building, fronting Stevenson Street, while retail space will continue to front the ground floor at Market Street. The property is located within the C-3-O(SD) (Downtown Office (Special Development)) Zoning District and 300-S Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Jodie Night – Project presentation’
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:19204
16.2012.1333X(D. VU: (415) 575-9120)
923-931 FOLSOM STREET-south side between 5thand 6thStreets, Lots 106, 141, and 142 in Assessor’s Block 3753 -Request for Large Project Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Section 329 and exceptions including rear yard, residential off-street parking, off-street loading, andheight exceptionfor the proposed construction of a new eight-story, 85-foot tall building consisting of up to 114 dwelling units, approximately 1,800 square feet of retail space, and parking for up to 78 spaces.The subject property is located within the MUR (Mixed Use Residential) District with 45-X and 85-X Height and Bulk Designations.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Kim Diamond – Project presentation
+ Architect – Project design
+ Rob Poole – Support
+ Joel Coppel – Support
+ (M) Speaker – Phillipino support
+ (M) Speaker – Support
+ (F) Speaker – Support
+ (F) Speaker – Support
+ Xavier – Support
+ Justin Braunman – Support
+ (M) Speaker – Support
+ Peter Garza – Support
= C. Douglas O’Connor – Parking ramp
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Fong
MOTION:19205
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
17a.2014.0981D(D. VU: (415) 575-9120)
437 DUNCAN STREET- south side between Noe and Sanchez Streets; Lot 035 in Assessor’s Block 6602 –Mandatory Discretionary Review, pursuant to Planning code Section 317(d), of Demolition Permit Application No. 2012.07.16.4978 proposing to demolish an 816 sq. ft. one-story, single-family dwelling within an RH-2 (Residential, House – Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 10, 2014)
17b.2012.0075DD(D. VU: (415) 575-9120)
437 DUNCAN STREET- south side between Noe and Sanchez Streets; Lot 035 in Assessor’s Block 6602Mandatory Discretionary Review,pursuant to Planning code Section 317(d), of Building Permit Application No. 2012.04.18.8570 proposing to construct a 3,972 sq. ft. three-story over garage, single-family dwelling within a RH-2 (Residential, House – Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Modifications
(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 10, 2014)
17c.2012.0075DDD. VU: (415) 575-9120)
437 DUNCAN STREET- south side between Noe and Sanchez Streets; Lot 035 in Assessor’s Block 6602 –Request for Discretionary Review, of Building Permit Application No. 2012.04.18.8570 proposing to construct a 3,972 sq. ft. three-story over garage, single-family dwelling within a RH-2 (Residential, House – Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Modifications
(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 10, 2014)
SPEAKERS:- Ross Camp - DR Requestor presentation
-Jorke Herman – too big, 4thlevel penthouse
-Jim Lynch – 4thfloor penthouse
-Petra Janerval – Roofdeck and penthouse
-Jim Harden – Read a letter into the record
-Gene Harden – Multiple objections
-Elizabeth Mills – Neighborhood character
-Meredith Daly – Community
-Cynthia Gregory – Precedence
-Carlos Gergado – Visual scale
-Christopher Baker – Not compatible
-Georgia – Demolition, relative affordability
-Celia Rose – Not compatible
+ Daniel Fratin – Project sponsor presentation
+ Peklan Hogan – Positive externalities
+ Elizabethn McCown – Family housing
+ (F) Speaker – Noe Valley community
+ Adam McCarthy – Support
+ Judy Quigley – Not incompatible
+ Chris – Compliments the neighborhood
+ Noreen Byrne – Submittals
-(M) Speaker – Rebuttal
+ Craig Scott - Rebuttal
ACTION:Took DR Approving the Mandatory DR’s; eliminating the penthouse; allowing a minimal stair penthouse to access a roof deck, appropriately setback from all sides.
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
DRA No:0370
18.2014.0186D(S. LAI: (415) 575-9087)
344 3RDAVENUE- east side between Clement Street and Geary Boulevard, Lot 031, in Assessor's Block 1434 -MandatoryDiscretionary Reviewpursuant to Planning Code Section 317(e), of Building Permit Application No. 2014.02.04.7793 proposing the dwelling unit merger from two dwelling units into a single-family home. The property is located within a RM-1 (Mixed Residential, Low Density) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. Planning Commission approval at the public hearing would constitute the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and Disapprove
SPEAKERS:+ Aaron Miller – Submittals
+ Jennifer Johnson – Project presentation
+ (F) Speaker – Support for a relatively affordable home
ACTION:No DR Approved Merger
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Sugaya
NAYES:Wu
DRA No:0371
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
SPEAKERS:(F) Speaker – piecemeal mergers
Adjournment –6:56 P.M.
ADOPTED:August7, 2014