SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, May 8, 2014
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT WU AT 12:06 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Scott Sanchez –Zoning Administrator,Sharon Young, Christine Haw, Audrey Desmuke, Claudia Flores, Keith DeMartini, Erika Jackson, Tina Chang, Kanishka Burns, Omar Masry, Christine Lamorena, and Jonas P. Ionin – Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition.
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1.2011.0919C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
1010 BUSH STREET-at the northwest corner of Bush and Jones Streets, Lot 007 in Assessor’s Block 0276 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.6(b) and 303 to allow a wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The proposed macro WTS facility would feature nine (9) panel antennas on the roof of the existing four-story tall, mixed-use building. Three (3) of the antennas would be mounted behind two (2) new screening enclosures attached to the east facing wall of an existing rooftop penthouse. The remaining six (6) antennas would be mounted on the roof of the existing rooftop penthouse. Related electronic equipment would be located on the roof and in a basement room. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 5 Site (Preferred Location; Mixed-Use Buildings in High Density Districts) within a RC-4 (Residential-Commercial, High Density) Zoning District, and 65-A Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
(Proposed for Continuance to May 22, 2014)
SPEAKERS:Daisel McArthur – Continue to May 22
Muriel Valencia – Supports continuance
ACTION:Continued to May 22, 2014
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
2a.2013.1355D(C. LAMORENA: (415) 575-9085)
3305 BRODERICK STREET- west side between Bay and Francisco Streets; Lot 008 in Assessor’s Block 0926 -Mandatory Discretionary Review, pursuant to Planning Code Section 317(d), of Demolition Permit Application No.  2013.07.30.3155, proposing to demolish a one-story over garage, single-family dwelling, within a RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. . This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis: Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Proposed for Continuance to May 22, 2014)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to May 22, 2014
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
2b.2014.0624D(C. LAMORENA: (415) 575-9085)
3305 BRODERICK STREET- west side between Bay and Francisco Streets; Lot 008 in Assessor’s Block 0926 -Mandatory Discretionary Review,pursuant to Planning Code Section 317(d), of Demolition Permit Application No.  2013.07.30.3152, proposing to construct a new three-story over garage, two-unit residential building, within a RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Staff Analysis: Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Proposed for Continuance to May 22, 2014)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to May 22, 2014
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
3.2011.1311C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
2495 GOLDEN GATE AVENUE-along the south side of Golden Gate Avenue (also addressed as 2130 Fulton Street), between Chabot Terrace and Parker Avenue, Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 1145 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.6(b) and 303 to allow a wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The proposed macro WTS facility would feature nine (9) panel antennas screened by an expansion to an existing, 81-foot tall, tower adjacent to a library. Related electronic equipment would be located in a mechanical penthouse on the roof of the library. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 1 Site (Publicly-Used Structure, University of San Francisco Gleeson Library) within a RH-2 (Residential-House, Two Family) Zoning District, and a 80-D Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
(Proposed for Indefinite Continuance)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued Indefinitely
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
4.2011.1310C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
2350 TURK BOULEVARD-along the north side of Turk Boulevard, between Annapolis Terrace and Tamalpais Terrace, Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 1107 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.6(b) and 303 to allow a wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The proposed macro WTS facility would feature nine (9) panel antennas, and related electronic equipment, mounted to the roof of an existing four-story building. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 1 Site (Publicly-Used Structure, University of San Francisco School of Education) within an RH-2 (Residential-House, Two Family) Zoning District, and a 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
(Proposed for Indefinite Continuance)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued Indefinitely
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
5.2013.1655C(S. YOUNG: (415) 558-6346)
840 IRVING STREET- northeast corner of Irving Street and 10thAvenue; Lot 026 in Assessor’s Block 1741 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization,pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 730.51 to convert an approximately 2,565 square-foot vacant ground floor commercial tenant space (previously occupied by Park’s Farmers Market) into a medical service use (d.b.a. One Medical Group, a member-supported primary care medical practice) located in a mixed-use building within the Inner Sunset Neighborhood Commercial District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.  This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
MOTION:19139
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
6.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for April 24, 2014
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
7.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Yeah.Interesting article in the Examiner on Tuesday, the author is Sam Tepperman-Gelfant, and the article was about, entitled Suburbs Key to Ease Imbalance,and it’s very appropriate that this come up the same day we're discussing the Housing Inventory.The point that this author makes is that, it’s not just the job of Oakland, San Francisco and San Jose, the three largest cities in the region, to provide the affordable housing for the region, but it needs to be done in all cities and there's really no place, no low income affordable units being built in any of the suburbs, or virtually none. And, so, he went through a whole survey.Hedidn't list the percentages of the affordable housing in these various suburban locations, but I’ve seen some figures and most of them are pretty low, especially on the lower end, lower income affordable housing, but he didtalk about a subject that I've brought up many times is that we have to also address the needs of the commuters to the cities or to any city. That being said, San Francisco also, not just those who live here, and he gave some interesting statistics, he went through a series of Bay Area cities, came up with a percentage of people who drive or somehow get into these areas where their work or jobs are. Pleasanton, which has a Safeway among others 90%, and San Ramon, Chevron and others 91%, Mountain View, Google 93%, Cupertino, Apple also 93%, Menlo Park, Facebook 95% and this particular author said we have up to 60% who commute into San Francisco of our workforce. I'm not sure if that’s accurate. Staff has usually given me figures around 50%, but regardless, San Francisco does much better than any of these others do, and the author makes the point that the voters in these communities vote for the large corporate campuses, but vote down any affordable housing, vote down transit most of the times, and those workers who have to commute into these cities can’t vote because they live in other places, usually long ways away.So I think when we consider our housing needs in San Francisco we have to look at not just those who happen to be living here at this particular time, but also take into consideration the workforce and try to link our housing to be, to satisfy our workforce not just who happens to be living here right now, because it's a changing situation and also the other point that this author makes, and I think I entirely agree is, these assessments should be done more on a regional basis.County and city lines are fairly arbitrary and a lot people do move from one city to another and we must make sure that if we’re looking for area goals by ABAG and others, that dictate a certain amount of affordable housing being built, that we hold the same standards to all areas, not just the larger cities, to be the people who are going to have to provide the funding for this housing, so a very good article worth reading.
Commissioner Borden:
I wanted to ask for a hearing related to the Hunters Point Shipyard Project.I heard that there are some streets being redesigned in the project at the Fire Department’s request from what we had agreed upon as part of the Better Streets Plan of 20-foot width, to a 26-foot width and I think that that is a big change to the overall pattern of development that we contemplated and I’d like for us to understand why that’s being pushed for here and weigh in on that.
Commissioner Antonini:
I’m also interested in hearing that I wasn't sure how it came about.I will take Commissioner Borden's wordthat we had approved 20 feet, because it sounded like the story I had, that certain Supervisors were looking to narrow what is normally the case.So whatever the situation is, it’s worth hearing about what is being done.
Commissioner Moore:
I would support that we bring this back to the Commission.
8.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Commissioners, Good Afternoon, John Rahaim, just on that point, there is a hearing also at the Board of Supervisors on Monday afternoon at the Land Use Committee on this issue of street widths in the Hunters Point Shipyard Plan. The Fire Department has asked for wider widths than were in the approved plan for fire access reasons. We will be – we are looking at that very issue with them right now, to see if there are ways to accommodate their desired width, while not making the streets too wide to be comfortable for pedestrians and to also discourage speeding traffic, which is an issue with larger lane widths.So we are working with the Fire Department and the other agencies involved right now and we’ll certainly be happy to schedule a hearing at this Commission as well, when the calendar permits that to happen.
Commissioner Wu:
So, we’ll schedule the hearing and then let the public know about it.
Director Rahaim:
The hearing on Monday is at Land Use Committee at the Board of Supervisors at 1:30 p.m..Secondly, I just wanted to reinforce what is in your written report today for purposes of the Commission and the public.There is an Ocean Avenue Corridor Design Workshop on Wednesday the 14th, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. to look at the Ocean Avenue Corridor Streetscape Plan, that is, again 6:00 – 8:00 p.m. Wednesday the 14that Lick-Wilmerding High School, next week, and that concludes my report.
9.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
There were no Planning Code items at the Land Use Committee this week.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·131205: Planning Code Amendments Related to Production, Distribution, and Repair Uses.This Ordinance contained amendments designed to promote the creation of more space for PDR businesses and make PDR controls more comprehendible.Passed its first read.
·140097 Supervisor Yee: Medical Cannabis Dispensaries – Ocean Avenue NCT District.This would require Conditional Use authorization for an MCD to locate within 500 feet of an existing MCD in the Ocean Avenue NCT District.Passed its final read and is now at the Mayor’s Office.
·Appeal of Tentative Parcel Map - 738 Mission Street.Continued May 20thso that several appeals regarding this project could be heard at the same time.
·Appeal of Tentative Parcel Map - 653-655 Fell Street.Continued to June 3rdso that the Project Sponsor and the Appellant could provide the Board more information.
INTRODUCTIONS:
Three charter amendments that will be on the November 4thballot.These items do not amend the Planning Code and will not be brought to the Planning Commission for review or action.
·140443 Supervisor Yee: Children and Families Council; San Francisco Children and Families Plan.Charter Amendment to create a Children and Families Council, which shall prepare and maintain a San Francisco Children and Families Plan for making the City more supportive of children and families.
·140442 Supervisor Kim: Public Education Enrichment Fund.Charter Amendment to: 1) renew the Public Education Enrichment Fund and eliminate its expiration date; 2) change the allocation for universal preschool, overseen by the First Five Commission, to an allocation for universal early education, overseen by the Office of Early Care and Education, and create a citizens advisory committee; 3) eliminate the City’s ability to use in-kind services to satisfy its obligations to the Fund; and 4) modify certain technical requirements for the Fund and delete obsolete provisions.
·140441 Supervisor Avalos: Children and Youth Fund; Commission on Children, Youth, and Their Families.Charter Amendment to: 1) renew and rename the Children’s Fund and eliminate the Fund’s expiration date; 2) increase the property tax set-aside for the Fund from three cents per $100 of assessed valuation to five cents; 3) provide for services for at-risk youth 18 to 24 years old; 4) revise and expand the planning process for expenditures from the Fund; 5) modify the advisory committee for the Fund; 6) create a Commission on Children, Youth and Their Families; and 7) repeal an obsolete section of the Charter.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No Report
10.(C. HAW: (415) 558-6618)
ACADEMY OF ART UNIVERSITY-Informational Updateand Progress Report on the Academy of Art University(AAU)Enforcement Program.
Preliminary Recommendation: None - Informational
SPEAKERS:Sue Hestor – Plundering of housing resources by AAU
Calvin Welch – Schedule an action item
Dr. Espanola Jackson – Support of last two speakers, affordability
John Bartas – Time to act
ACTION:Scheduled a hearing for September 4, 2014 to hear an EIR status update and to determine which items would be calendared for a date certain hearing in the future.
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
11.(A. DESMUKE: (415) 575-9136)
2013 HOUSING INVENTORY REPORT-Announcing the publication of the2013 Housing Inventory.This report is the 44th in the series and describes San Francisco’s housing supply.Housing Inventorydata accounts for new housing construction, demolitions, and alterations in a consistent format for analysis of housing production trends.Net housing unit gains are reported citywide, by zoning classification, and by planning district.Other areas covered include affordable housing production, condominium conversions, and changes to the residential hotel stock.In addition, lists of major housing projects completed and approved for construction in 2013 are provided.A list of affordable housing projects in the pipeline (projects in various stages of review or pre-construction planning) is included to provide a picture of likely housing construction activity in the near future.Report is available for the public at the Planning Department and on the website.
Preliminary Recommendation: None - Informationalhttp://www.sf-planning.org/ftp/files/publications_reports/Housing_Inventory_2013.pdf
SPEAKERS:= Dr. Espanola Jackson – Requests to BoS re: AMI, affordable housing for San
Franciscans
= Peter Cohen – Real estate capital is dynamic
= Jerry Anders – Public housing vs. new affordable housing
Sarah Dennis-Phillips, OEWD - Housing meter
ACTION:None – Informational
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:Susan – Marshall parent, development input
Dr. Espanola Jackson – 1992 Vice-President of the U.S. Dan Quayle, public housing
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
12.2006.1308EMTZ(C. FLORES: (415) 558-6473)
INITIATE GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS AS PART OF THE VISITACION VALLEY/SCHLAGE LOCK PROJECT- Pursuant to Planning Code Section 302, Planning Commissionconsideration of a Resolution to Initiate amendments to the General Planand schedule a public hearingto amend maps found in the Commerce and Industry, Transportation and Urban Design Elements as well as to the Land Use Index to reflect the Visitation Valley/Schlage Lock Special Use District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution to Initiate and schedule a public hearing
SPEAKERS:+ Fran Martin – Key to community survival and revitalization
+ Jim Growden – The heart of Visitacion Valley needs this
+ Douglas Fong – Design for development process, community design reviewparticipant process
+ Russel Morine – A long time coming, trust the community, staff, and developers have put the time in to create a good project
+ Tim Collen – Community workshops, more units
+ Terry Anders – Jobs, community activist
+ Mindy Kinner – Community job hiring program, for Sunnydale residents, public housing first
+ Roland Lebrun – Track alignment, speed impediment
+ Jonathan Sharfman – Response to question
ACTION:Adopted a Resolution initiating GP amendments and scheduling a hearing
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:19140
13.2014.0442T(K. DEMARTINI: (415) 575-9118)
DEPARTMENT-SPONSORED PLANNING CODE AMENDMENTS RELATED TO ELIMINATING FEES-Pursuant to Planning Code Section 302, the Planning Commissionconsideration of a Resolution to amend the Planning Codeto eliminate the Installment Agreement Processing Fee, Refund Processing Fee, Information Analysis Requests for IT Fee, and Reactivation Fee. Planning Code sections proposed for amendment include Sections 350b, 350d, 351d, and 351i.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
RESOLUTION:19141
14.2013.1668T(A. STARR: (415) 558-6362)
BONA FIDE EATING PLACE- Planning Commissionconsideration of an Ordinance [BF 131064] amendingthePlanning Codeto expand the definition of “bona fide eating place” to include a definition based on food sales per occupant and modifying the definition of a Bar to include establishments with an ABC License Type 47 that are not Bona Fide Eating Places; andmaking environmental findings and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation:Adopt a Recommendation for Approvalwith Modifications
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Under Consideration of Items Proposed for Continuance; Continued to June 19, 2014
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Borden
15.2010.0710C(E. JACKSON: (415) 558-6363)
777 VALENCIA STREET- east side between 18thand 19thStreets; Lots 088 and 108 in Assessor’s Block 3589-Public informationhearingto review compliance of Conditionsof Approval per Motion 18225. The original project, approved by the Planning Commission on November 18, 2010, was the conversion of an existing vacant two-story building to two new Full-Service Restaurant & Bar Establishments (dba The Chapel and The Vestry) on the ground floor, an Other Entertainment Establishment (dba Preservation Hall West at the Chapel Jazz Club) on the ground floor, accessory offices on the second floor, and an outdoor activity area on the adjacent vacant lot.  The project is located within the Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District (Valencia NCT), 55-X Height and Bulk District, and Mission Alcoholic Beverage Special Use Subdistrict.
SPEAKERS:+ Phil Lesser – Project description
+ Patricia Dedeleian – The Chapel’s musicals offerings
+Amber Hadiserato – Relationships w/ vendors and neighbor issues. Trashcollection
+ Dave Kluger – Behave as good neighbors
+ James Howard – Noise, trash, nuisance
ACTION:No Action
16.2014.0204C(T. CHANG: (415) 575-9197)
4150 17TH STREET-north side of 17thStreet at Eureka Street; Lot 168 in Assessor’s Block 2623 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.7, 303 and 304, to modify conditions of approval filed under motion 10755 and Case Number 1986.153C and to change the use of up to 23 parking spaces from private to community garage conditionally permitted under 209.7, associated with the Planned Unit Development within a RH-3 (Residential, House – Three-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Suzanne Eisenhud – Project presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Sugaya
ABSENT:Moore
MOTION:19142
17.2014.0125C(K. BURNS: (415) 575-9112)
1118 POLK STREET- east side of Polk Street, between Hemlock and Post Streets; Lot 012 of Assessor’s Block 0692 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant toPlanning Code Sections 703.4 and 303 to convert an approximately 1,100 square-foot vacant ground floor commercial tenant space (previously occupied by Super One Tobacco and Groceries Center) into a formula retail sales and service establishment (d.b.a. NutriShop) located in a mixed-use building within the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District and a 130-E Height and Bulk District.The proposal will involve interior tenant improvements to the ground floor commercial tenant space, with no expansion of the existing building envelope. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Jasson Miller – Project presentation
-Derrick Villalobos – Vacancy, property owner
+ (M) Speaker – Developed business in Sunnydale
+ Ed Dick-Milsap – Good store
-Erik Brooks – Existing health stores
-Chan Pham – Max Muscle owner, GNC, Vitamin Shop, CVS, Walgreens
-Michael Nolte – Not necessary
+ Emily – Good for S.F.
+ Roger Rine – Good project
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Fong, Antonini, Hillis, Sugaya
NAYES:Borden, Moore
MOTION:19143
18.2013.0381C(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
540 SAN JUAN AVENUE-at the northeast corner of San Juan and San Jose Avenues, Lot 037 in Assessor’s Block 3152 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.6(b), and 303, to allow a wireless telecommunications services (WTS) facility operated by AT&T Mobility.  The proposed macro WTS facility would feature ten (10) panel antennas screened by faux rooftop mechanical penthouses. Related electronic equipment would be located on the roof and a portion of the existing parking lot. The facility is proposed on a Location Preference 1 Site (Preferred Location; Publicly-Used Structure, Korean Evangelical Church of San Francisco) within a RH-1 (Residential-House, One Family) Zoning District, and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Tedi Vriheas – Project presentation
-Terry Gainer – Residential neighborhood alternative sites
-David Hooper – Intrusive boxes
-Lisa Walsh – Search rings
-Roger Rine – Petition in opposition continuance to consider pool site
-Paul Fil – Balboa swimming pool site revenue for the facility
ACTION:Approved with Conditions, adding a finding that AT&T volunteered reducing the number of sectors at this site if and when an alternative site is able to provide coverage for the same geographic area in the future
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Borden, Sugaya
NAYES:Hillis, Moore
ABSENT:Fong
MOTION:19144
19a.2014.0043C(C. LAMORENA: (415) 575-9085)
2055A UNION STREET- south side between Webster and Buchanan Streets; Lot 018 in Assessor’s Block 0541 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(c), 303(i), and 725.43 to allow a Formula Retail Use that is also a Limited-Restaurant (d.b.a. Earthbar) within the Union Street NCD (Neighborhood Commercial District) and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Lu Blazej – Project presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Wu
MOTION:19145
19b.2014.0160C(C. LAMORENA: (415) 575-9085)
2055B UNION STREET- south side between Webster and Buchanan Streets; Lot 018 in Assessor’s Block 0541 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 725.43 to allow a Limited-Restaurant (d.b.a. Espressamente Illy) within the Union Street NCD (Neighborhood Commercial District) and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Joe Gudock – Project presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:Wu
MOTION:19146
G.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
Adjournment –6:06 P.M.
ADOPTED:May22, 2014