<<Project Start>>
2000.259K
X
V                                                                                    
    (MILLER: 558-6344)


421 TURK STREET
 -


south side between Hyde and Larkin Streets, Lot 17 in Assessor’s Block 
    346 -- Request for Determination of Compliance pursuant to Section 309 with 
    respect to a proposal to construct an eight-story apartment building with 
    34 affordable dwelling units, involving an exception to the rear-yard standards 
    of the Planning Code (Section 134, 
et seq.
) in a C-3-G (Downtown General 
    Commercial) D istrict and an 80-X Height and Bulk District.  The proposed 
    project is also the subject of a requested Variance (Case No. 2000.259X
V
KE) 
    of the Planning Code standards for Dwelling-Unit Exposure (Section 140).
 
Following Advertisement and Notification for this project, 
    the Sponsor has proposed a reduction in units to 29 total, and a reduction 
    in off-street parking spaces from 9 to seven, and the addition of accessory 
    space to be used for job counseling, all within the previously submitted building 
    envelope.


Preliminary Recommendation: Pending


(Proposed for 
Indefinite Continuance
 
    Continuance to June 7, 2001)


SPEAKER(S)     None


ACTION:           Continued to June 7, 2001


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


7.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2000.259KX
V
                                                                                    
    (MILLER: 558-6344)


421 
    TURK STREET 
- south side between Hyde and Larkin Streets, Lot 17 
    in Assessor’s Block 346 –dwelling-unit exposure variance  sought in conjunction 
    with the construction of an eight-story apartment building with 34 affordable 
    dwelling units, also involving a requested exception from the rear-yard standards 
    of the Planning Code pursuant to Code Sections 134, 
et seq.
, and 309, 
    in a C-3-G (Downtown General Commercial) District and an 80-X Height and Bulk 
    District
.


(Proposed 
for Indefinite Continuance
 
    Continuance to June 7, 2001)


SPEAKER(S)     None


ACTION:           Continued to June 7, 2001


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


B.
 
COMMISSIONERS' QUESTIONS 
    AND MATTERS
 


 
 8.        Commission Matters


Commissioner Theoharis:        
She would like for staff to contact 
    Ms. Voughey or the Alamo Association regarding Touchless Car Wash.  There 
    have been several letters sent to her regarding conditions of approval that 
    have not been met.


C.
 
DIRECTOR'S 
    REPORT


 
9.         Director's Announcements






 
Re:  Touchless Car Wash


 
The Director and the Zoning Administrator will look 
    into this matter and the letters and report to the Commission.


 
Re:  New Environmental Review Officer


 
Ms. Hillary Gitelman left the Department a few months 
    ago.  The Director is happy to announce that the new Officer of Environmental 
    Review will be Mr. Paul Maltzer.


10.        Review of Past Week's Events at the Board of Supervisors and Board 
    of Appeals


BOS


Re:  Budget/Work Program


- The Department's budget and work program was before the Board's Housing, Land 
    Use and Transportation Committee.


- The issue was quite important and it required the Director, Zoning Administrator, 
    Amit Gosh and Ms. Diane Lim who is our fiscal person, to attend to respond 
    to questions that were raised.


- The Committee felt that it [our budget and work program] was relevant and 
    important to discuss.


- This process is a public process so there were members of the public that 
    were there.


- Supervisor McGoldrick had a series of questions and I (as the director) will 
    sit with him and try to respond to these questions.


- Although it's a little premature to go through all these discussions because 
    things change, but the amount of money we need to receive is quite important.


- When the Department knows how much revenue 
    we will actually be granted, we will have a better understanding of whether 
    or not we will be able to do all that the work program proposes to carry out.  
    At that point, we can then come to the Commission and try to resolve any conflicts.


- At least 3 hours were spent on this and how the Department implements the 
    Residential Design Guidelines.


- The hearing was an informational presentation 
    and no action was taken.  There are still people who are dissatisfied with 
    the outcome of the hearing and expressed their frustrations about their expectations 
    of the process.


BOA (Isolde Wilson represented Larry Badiner at this hearing).


Re:  673 Clipper Street


The Commission approved this residential project 
    in Noe Valley in 1997.  It was to contain 2 affordable units.  Apparently 
    these units became rental after the project was bought by someone new who 
    had a different understanding.  The original plan was for 60% of median but 
    the outcome was 120% of median income.


Re:  Pier 39


When this project was approved, the areas of 
    public accessible open space were approved even though the spaces are privately 
    owned.  In 1997 the Zoning Administrator at that time approved, as a temporary 
    use, a bungee jump concession.  This issue came to the Zoning Administrator's 
    attention as a request for a permanent bungee jump concession. He sought the 
    advice of BCDC and they both decided that because there is a fee charged for 
    the activity, it is not public access.  Although the Zoning Administrator 
    disagrees, the BOA decided that this was publicly accessible open space.


11.                                                                                                                        
    (BAUMAN: 558-6287)


The Department is releasing a background 
    report, which will provide information needed for the upcoming revisions to 
    the Housing (Residence) Element of the General Plan.  The Element is required 
    by the State of California, and will be completed by December 31, 2001.  This 
    report, Part I of the Housing Element, contains housing data and an evaluation 
    of housing needs in San Francisco.  The Department intends to share and discuss 
    this information with the public and with those who shape San Francisco’s 
    housing policy as the drafting of the Element’s objective and policies proceeds.  
    Part I is now available at the Department.  Call 558-6282 to order a copy.  
    It is also available on the Department’s web site.  The Commission will hold 
    a public hearing on this information and other housing policy issues in June 
    2001.  


SPEAKER(S):    None


ACTION:           No Action Required


 D.
                                       
    
 REGULAR CALENDAR


 
12.        2000.1058E                                                                                        
    (DEAN:  558-5980)


 
1598 
    DOLORES STREET
 - 
(Reilly’s Funeral Home), 
located at the northwest 
    corner of Dolores and 29th Streets; Assessor's Block 6618; Lots 7, 9, 38
 
    in Assessors Block 6618.
 
Appeal of a Preliminary Negative 
    Declaration. 
The proposed construction consists of two, four-story residential 
    buildings with a total of 13 units (two of which would be affordable units) 
    and demolition of an existing two-story mortuary building.  The project would 
    provide 13 off-street parking spaces.  The proposed project site is 10,500 
    sq. ft. and is located in the NC-1 (Neighborhood Commercial Cluster) District.  
    The project would require Conditional-Use Authorization by the City Planning 
    Commission.


 
Preliminary 
    Recommendation:  Uphold Preliminary Negative Declaration


 
(Continued 
    from Regular Meeting of May 10, 2001)


SPEAKER(S):    None


ACTION:           Continued Indefinitely


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, 
    Salinas, Theoharis


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


 
13.        2000.1058C                                                                                           
    (TAM: 558-6325)


1598 
    DOLORES STREET
 
    – 
(Reilly’s Funeral Home), northwest corner of Dolores and 29th Streets; 
    Lots 7, 9, and 38 in Assessors Block 6618. Request for Conditional Use to 
    demolish the existing one and two-story mortuary buildings and construct two 
    (2) new four-story, residential buildings with a total of 13 dwelling units 
    (two of which would be affordable units) and 13 parking spaces on lots totaling 
    approximately 10,500 square feet.  


Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions


 
(Continued 
    from Regular Meeting of May 10, 2001)


SPEAKER(S):    None


ACTION:           Continued Indefinitely


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, 
    Salinas, Theoharis


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


14.        2001.0005C                                                                             
            (SIDER: 558-6697)


 
224 MISSISSIPPI STREET
 - west 
    side between Mariposa and 18th Streets; Lot 002 in Assessor's Block 4001. 
    Request for Conditional Use Authorization to allow the continuation of a nonconforming 
    light industrial use, pursuant to Planning Code Section 185(e), in an RH-2 
    (Residential, House, Two-Family) District with a 40-X Height and Bulk Designation. 
    The proposal is to allow the continued occupancy of the ground floor of the 
    subject property by a light industrial use for 20 years.  No physical changes 
    are to be made to the structure.  


 
Preliminary Recommendation: Pending


(Continued from Regular 
    Meeting of May 10, 2001)


SPEAKER(S):    


(+) David Silverman


– Representing the Project Sponsor


- The property was constructed in 
    1958


- For many years the bottom floor 
    was used for light industrial.


- The existing use supports and is 
    compatible with the mixed-use 


- There are no windows in the building and there 
    is no rear yard.  Windows cannot be added because it would violate the building 
    code of property line windows.  There are no parking spaces and no open space.


- This warehouse was built to the 
    lot lines.


- Granting this conditional use would 
    continue the status quo and promote the General Plan's policy of allowing 
    a viable, industrial firm to remain in the City.


- He is requesting the 20-year extension 
    since this building cannot be used for residential use and would have to be 
    torn down.


(+) Jack Greenwood


- He has been a resident of San Francisco 
    for 15 years.


- He lives very close to the property 
    site.


- He fully believes that Graphisoft 
    should be able to stay in San Francisco.


- The owners are trying to stay in 
    the City since most of their employees live in San Francisco.


- He hopes that the Commission approves 
    this project otherwise Graphisoft would have to relocate to another city.


- There are about 15 people employed 
    there.


(+) Edmundo Vito Cruz


- He has worked for Graphisoft for 
    over 7 years.


- He started to search for new office space in 
    February of 2000.  His goal was to find something within their budget and 
    in San Francisco.


- He covered over 3,000 miles in various cities 
    surrounding San Francisco, and found out that they were up against various 
    other companies.  This was not an easy task.


- They signed the lease agreement 
    in October on the location of Mississippi Street.


- Being in the same neighborhood, 
    this allows them to visit the same locations and clients.


(+) Noe Zavala


- He has been working for Graphisoft 
    for 5 years and is a homeowner in Potrero Hill.


- He rides his bike to work and it 
    is very advantageous for the company to remain in the neighborhood.


(+) Daniel Kon


- He was just hired by Graphisoft 
    and is very happy working there.


- He just moved to the City about 
    4 months ago.


- A lot of people are looking for 
    financial stability and this company is allowing him to live in the City.


- A lot of people are in similar situations 
    where they have to move away from the City because the company they work for 
    is also moving away.


ACTION:           Approved 


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, 
    Salinas, Theoharis


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


MOTION:          16168


 
15.        2001.0204C                                                                                  
         (SIDER: 558-6697) 


832 
    FOLSOM STREET
 - 
northwest side of Folsom 
    Street between 4
th
  and 5
th
 Streets, being a through 
    lot to Clementina Street, Lot 17 in Assessor’s Block 3733: Request for Conditional 
    Use Authorization to allow (1) the establishment of social service space in 
    an RSD (Residential / Service) Mixed-Use District pursuant to Planning Code 
    Section 815.21 and 890.50(a), (2) a special height exemption to 85 feet per 
    Code Section 263.11, and (3) a bulk limit exception per Code Section 271, 
    in a 40-X / 85-B Height and Bulk District. The proposal is to construct up 
    to 1,500 new square-feet of social service space for use as administrative 
    office space by the Salvation Army within an existing 10-story office building. 
    The additions would enclose 1 existing terrace/deck each on the northeast 
    and northwest sides of the 5
th
 floor of the structure. The proposed 
    additions would occur above the 40-foot base height limit and in excess of 
    the "B" bulk controls. 


Preliminary Recommendation: Approval 
    with Conditions.


SPEAKER(S):


(+) Stephen Rajninger


- The report given by staff was very 
    through.


- He hopes that the Commission will 
    approve the project.


- He thanks staff for all their help.


ACTION:           Approved


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, 
    Salinas, Theoharis


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


MOTION:          16169


E.
 
SPECIAL DISCRETIONARY REVIEW HEARING


At Approximately
 
3:00
 PM
 
    the Planning Commission convened into a Special Discretionary Review (DR) 
    Hearing to hear and act on Discretionary Review matters.


16.        2000.375D                                                                                 
    (M. SNYDER: 575-6891)


 
705 UTAH 
    STREET
 - a landlocked parcel bordered by parcels facing 19th Street to 
    its north, and San Bruno Avenue to its east, Lot 14 in Assessor's Block 4076.  
    Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit No. 2000/02/17/2203, proposing 
    to construct a two-unit residential building on a vacant lot, in an RH-2 (Residential, 
    House, Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


 
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and approve the project with modifications.


 
(Continued 
    from Regular Meeting of April 12, 2001)


SPEAKER(S):


(-) Heather Villasenor


- 
She 
    would like to thank Commissioners Salinas and Theoharis for coming to a site 
    visit.


- There are various people here who 
    are opposed to the project because they will be impacted from this project.


- She believes that this site should 
    be rezoned.


- Many of these people are homeowners 
    and all have made large investments in their homes.


- The steep block on Utah Street and 
    it will make it impossible for people to get in and out of their homes.


- Invasion of privacy is of great 
    concern.


- The air quality is already terrible 
    since these homes are located near the freeway.


- They are worried about loosing the 
    trees on the block.


- Their street has 6 houses and one 
    large office building that takes over all the parking spaces.


- The loss of sunlight will be devastating.


- She will have a 33-foot wall on 
    her property line.


- They have a petition of almost 300 
    residents who are opposed to this project.


- It is not right that the whole neighborhood 
    will suffer just because of one developer who will not even be living there.


- There will also be an impact from 
    heavy construction use.


- Already it is difficult for the homeowners 
    to get to their homes now.  With the construction going on, it will be more 
    difficult.


(-) Mickey Hall


- She considers herself ground zero 
    from both projects.


- They are going to enclose two windows 
    and a light well on her property.


- The three original buildings were 
    built in 1907.


- This project will be devastating 
    to her and the quality of life to her and her neighbors, all for the sake 
    of profit.


- She feels that the project has done 
    nothing to work in conjunction with her property.


- She has pointed out to the project 
    sponsor that the surrounding buildings are Victorian and the proposed project 
    is very industrial.


 
-
          
    
 
The project 
    is monster construction that will replace a single-family home.


(-) Daniel Reily


- He is a resident and owner on 17
th
 
    Street.


- The proposed project will drastically 
    impact the quality of life to him and his neighbors.


- The current structure is a modest size.  The 
    project sponsor wants to replace it with a building that will be twice that 
    size.  It will be more imposing.


- The wall, which will be constructed, 
    will cast a shadow to his back yard where his children play.


- The properties on the street are 
    harmoniously designed and located.


- This building will have decks and 
    walls that will cause an impact on the neighbors just to maximize profits 
    from the developer.


- This project is just too excessive.


- A compromise would be to build a 
    3-story building instead, and more in a Victorian style that will be more 
    compatible with the neighborhood.


- He is not opposed to construction 
    on this site so long as it's reasonable.


(-) Betty Reily


- She lives on San Bruno Avenue.


- She has never protested any buildings 
    of any kind going on around her but this is just above and beyond anything 
    that could happen.


- Two homes in her back yard with decks looking 
    into 7 backyards.  Seven backyards will be affected.


- She objects to this project just 
    being for profit.


- There are decks everywhere.


- She opposes this project and hopes 
    that the Commission will vote to revise these plans.


(-) Dick Millet – Potrero Boosters 
    Association


- He is also having a problem with 
    this project.


- The project will just not work in 
    this neighborhood since it's out of scale and out of character.


- The apartment building on the corner is different 
    but this building is massive.  He would like to have the penthouse removed.


- He recommends that they put up a single story 
    cottage.  The design of this building is for everyone to be up in the air.


- It is a poorly designed project.


(-) name unclear


- She lives on San Bruno Avenue.


- She and her neighbors come before 
    the Commission to plead regarding this project.


- She, her housemates and neighbors are opposed 
    to this project since it is out of scale with the neighborhood.  The high 
    buildings will block sunlight from the homes.  Is it good to do this just 
    for financial gain?


- With this building so large next 
    to their homes, there is no more privacy.


- Would the Commissioners allow this 
    if the project were being built near their homes?


- 19
th
 Street is also a dead end street.  
    In a dramatic or life threatening emergency it would be impossible for them 
    to get through.


(-) Don Kimball


- He wants to be very personal about 
    this.


- He chose to live in the neighborhood 
    because of the type of homes and because of the sunlight that he can have.


- This project just does not fit in 
    this neighborhood because of its strange type of design.


- The condominium will block sunlight from three 
    windows.  He uses this sunlight to warm his home.


- Due to the size and scope of the 
    project, and the problem of accessibility of the dead end street, it would 
    be impossible for emergency vehicles to get through.


- In order to understand fully his 
    concerns, he invites the commissioners to come on a site visit.


 
-
          
    
 
He is confident 
    that if the Commissioners came to a site visit they would understand the impact 
    of this building.


(-) Marcello Bani


- He lives on San Bruno Avenue.


- He thanks Commissioners Salinas 
    and Theoharis for visiting this site.


- They felt that to promote fair judgment 
    of the Discretionary Review, the visit was very important.


- The model looks nice but it is not reality.  
    It is best to come to the site personally.


- There is an existing and very big 
    house, which is not shown on the model.


- Instead of the yellowish blocks 
    on the model, there are very nice Victorian houses with real people.


- The proposed project is going to 
    have a catastrophic impact on the quality of life to him and his family as 
    well as the community.


- As soon as the staff visited the 
    site, there were changes done to the plans.


- He hopes that the Commissioners 
    will vote to take both projects into Discretionary Review.


(-) Ana Tenato


- She lives on San Bruno Avenue


- She is not antidevelopment.


- She feels that she has a social 
    responsibility to speak on conflicting values.


- She would like to plea for the Commissioners 
    to reconsider both projects


- The projects impact negatively on 
    the quality of life of the neighbors especially with light and air, which 
    are basic ingredients for living.


(-) Stephen Kasey


- He lives on San Bruno Avenue.


- It actually is a little nicer than 
    the blocks display on the model.


- He has lived on Potrero Hill for 
    about 15 years.


- He is not opposed to construction.  His neighbors 
    directly across the street are building and trying to stay within the guidelines 
    of the neighborhood.


- The word that comes to his mind 
    regarding this project is  mass! 


- He is not even sure why the project 
    sponsor can show this model since it doesn't display the correct scale of 
    the project and the impact it will cause.


(-) Lia Tisey


- She lives on San Bruno Avenue.


- All her neighbors that have spoken 
    have pretty much said it all.


- She would like to have the penthouse 
    removed and the building to be more in character with the neighborhood.


(-) Sharon Radich


- She is a house sitter for Mindy Hall who has 
    been a property owner on 19
th
 Street for the past 11 years.  She 
    considers this her home and her community.


- There are many homes that will be 
    greatly impacted by this construction.


- She is very passionate about protecting the 
    integrity of surrounding homes.  


- 19
th
 Street is a narrow 
    dead-end street a half block long that was never intended to accommodate increased 
    traffic flow from this project.


- She will lose their window access and light 
    coming into the house and ventilation.  Air quality is important in this area 
    since the freeway surrounds the houses.


- Their quality of life will be reduced.


- It is very difficult already to 
    bring emergency vehicles into this street.


(-) Ann Chavez


- She believes that the project is 
    too large.


- It will take away the trees.


- It will be a cause for pollution.


(+) David Silverman – Representing 
    Project Sponsor


- There has been a lot of testimony, 
    which is not correct.


- There were 5 meetings, which were 
    scheduled, and not that many neighbors attended.


- The project sponsor has  bent over 
    backwards  to try to meet with the neighbors.


- The Utah building is 60 feet down 
    the slope from the homes.


- This is not a public park.  The land was put 
    up for sale.


- These are very modest sized buildings.


- The neighbors don't seem to understand that 
    the project sponsor will own the building.  The homes are not at all monster 
    homes.


(+) Drake – Building Designer


- The Planning process is tiered.


(+) Antonio Gribaski


- This project will be a home for 
    him and his family.


- Although his neighbors do not approve 
    to this project, he would like to construct this home since he lives in an 
    apartment right now with his family.


ACTION:           Take Discretionary Review 
    and approve a one unit building that is not to exceed 20 feet in height. 


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, 
    Theoharis


NAYES:            Salinas


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


 
17.        2000.360D                                                                                 
    (M. SNYDER: 575-6891)


 
2311 
    - 19TH STREET
 - south side between San Bruno Avenue and Highway 101, Lot 
    18 in Assessor's Block 4076. Request for Discretionary Review of Building 
    Permit No. 2000/02/29/3109 and Demolition Permit No. 2000/02/29/3108, proposing 
    to demolish the existing single-family house and construct a new two-unit 
    building, in an RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) District and a 40-X 
    Height and Bulk District.


                        Preliminary Recommendation: 
    Do not take Discretionary Review and approve the project as proposed.


 
(Continues from Regular Meeting 
    of April 12, 2001)


SPEAKER(S):    Same as those listed for item 
    16


ACTION:           Take Discretionary Review 
    and revise project by reducing the height of the structure not to exceed 20' 
    in height and to build only one unit.


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, 
    Salinas, Theoharis


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


 
18.        2000.395D                                                                                     
    (GORDON: 558-6309)


1800 MISSION STREET
 
    - 
at the corner of 14th and Mission 
    Streets, Lot 001 in Assessor's Block 3547, request for Discretionary Review 
    of Building Permit Application No. 2000/01/05/9659, proposing the rehabilitation 
    of City Landmark No. 108, the National Armory & Arsenal Building and conversion 
    of the vacant site to a facility for telecommunications use in a C-M (Heavy 
    Commercial) District and a 50-X/65-B Height and Bulk District.


Preliminary Recommendation: Because the building 
    permit has already been issued and is final, the Department is recommending 
    conditions to the Board of Appeals.  The Board has pending before it an appeal 
    of the Zoning Administrator's suspension of the permit pending the Commission's 
    hearing on the project.


SPEAKER(S):


(-) Sue Hestor


- The staff gave a very good explanation of the 
    status of the project.  She would just like to add a few points.


- Everyone has been working with very 
    good faith.


- At the Board of Appeals, if the 
    vote had gone against the project sponsor, they would have been put back into 
    the conditional use process under Supervisor Maxwell's legislation.


- She feels that they could reach 
    an agreement. 


- She has been working on real sensitive 
    issues regarding server farms and generator issues.


- They have focused on issues 


- There are very serious power problems 
    and energy demands.


- She has been focusing on issues 
    that staff have stated are not problems.


- She wants to point out that one 
    of the things that came about from the Board of Supervisors regarding server 
    farms is that San Francisco is in a unique situation because there is one 
    central line bringing in power and that line is at full capacity.


(-) Antonio Diaz – PODER and MAC


- Their concern is about power consumption.


- They are very concerned about the 
    impact on the City of San Francisco and the Mission on how power is utilized.


- There has been talk about dealing 
    with the fact that the Hunters Point Power plant is very unclean with its 
    emissions.


- They don't want to have something 
    come into the Mission which will cause impacts.


- The discussions taking place have 
    been peaceful


- One of the issues is that the building 
    should use the best commercially available energy efficient technology.


- There is an energy-offset fund set 
    aside for the Energy Department 


(-/+) Joe Boss


- A server farm is an excellent use 
    of the Armory.


- They went through a list of issues 
    and indicated that they have eliminated difficulties with parking.


- How do we offset the incredible 
    demand for power?


- In order to make this work, they came up with 
    a scheme.  The project would pay a fee after the first 3 megawatts of power 
    has been used (which is the same amount an office building would consume).  
    Once it reached that level, they would pay Â½ of 1% of their energy bill to 
    the Department of the Environment to fund programs to reduce energy consumption.  
    This would end in 10 years.


- Negotiations have been good.


(-) Sheheryar Kaoosji


- Diesel emissions coming out of the 
    backup generators are another matter of concern.


- The emissions will be similar to 
    dozens of diesel buses.


- They will run all the time.


- The emissions of this and all following 
    projects should be controlled by the air quality management guidelines.


- They want the following in order to mitigate 
    the air quality impacts of the server farm:  initial generators should be 
    run no longer than 10 years; all generators must have traps to control emissions 
    as much as possible; and these controls must be approved before any server 
    farms are allowed in the City.


(-) Erik Quesada


- They have learned a great deal of 
    information, especially from Supervisor Maxwell.


- Given what they have found out, 
    they believe that their Discretionary Review is justifiable.


- They continue to look for a solution 
    that guarantees 


- At this point, their goal is to 
    have the best, state of the art, and greenest project in their neighborhood.


- They hope they will come to an agreement.


- Their issues are reasonable.


- They want to share that they will 
    continue to monitor and be involved in proposed server farms proposing to 
    come into their neighborhood.


- He really hopes that the Commission 
    will listen to what they are saying.


(-) Ann Fishman


 
-
          
    
 
She is a 
    resident and a worker in the Mission District.


- She is here to represent people 
    who cannot be here.


- MAC's concerns and issues are very 
    reasonable.


- Ignoring these issues will be very 
    neglectful.


- There is no reason not to have clean 
    air planning.


(-) Chris Zelig


- She appreciates the Commissioners 
    listening to their proposal.


- The Environmental Offset Fund has 
    to do with the particulars of being located in San Francisco.


- This project would use 1 percent 
    of the entire power used for San Francisco.


- The fund would offset the total 
    consumption of the Mission.


(+) Michael Burk – He represents F&F 
    Mission Technology Center LLC


- He would like to thank Mr. Quesada, 
    Mr. Diaz and Ms. Hestor for having had many meetings and dialogues.


- This is a fully permitted project 
    that has paid a fully permitted price.


- The material submitted to the Commissioners 
    shows that this project is safe and will not delay or impact the demolition 
    of the Hunters Point Power Plant.


- Staff has addressed the issues in 
    the DR request.


- A faulty assumption behind the energy tax proposal 
    is that the Armory would demand 10 megawatts of power.  Its actual demand 
    would be 6 megawatts.


- Another assumption is that the Armory would 
    come online during the current energy crisis.  Tenants will not be online 
    until 2003 and not fully until 2009--well after the energy crisis.


- Yet another assumption is that the Armory's 
    demands would be excessive.  Yes, it would be more than an office building 
    but less than industrial.


(+) Catherine Bizel


- The project sponsor has emphasized 
    that the installation and operation of the project's standby emergency diesel 
    generator system would comply with all applicable air quality laws and regulations.


- The project generators must be certified.


- If further mitigation is necessary 
    to achieve the risk based performance standards, then the district will impose 
    the requirement on a case-by-case basis.


- The sponsor will voluntarily make 
    their generator records available to the public.


- These generators should be inspected 
    so they can be upgraded as required.


(+) Mike Yoshihara


- He doesn't really have much to add, 
    just that a project engineer is here to answer questions.


(+) Courtney Clarkson


- Her comments have to do with the 
    architectural preservation aspect of the project.


- The building has been abandoned 
    for many years.


- She was able to inspect the interior 
    of the building with the California Heritage Council and was able to see the 
    incredible amount of space available.


- This building is located in a very sunny part 
    of San Francisco and no one has mentioned to install solar collectors to offset 
    the amount of energy used.  The roof is vast and would have enough space.


- A lot of effort has gone into this 
    project.


(+) Warren Kop – California Heritage 
    Council


- He would like to lift the suspension 
    on the permit of this project.


- He would like to bring this building 
    back to something usable.


- The building has passed permit requirements.


(+) Winchel Hayward


- He has been a resident of San Francisco 
    for about 50 years.


- He has admired the Armory for many 
    years.


- He is in support of having this 
    use approved.


- The changes will be very minimal 
    to that area, it anything, it will help the area.


- This project offers the best that 
    we could ever have.


(+) James Kieffer


- He has lived in the Mission for 
    many years.


- The project sponsor has put a lot 
    of work and money into this project.


- Does this electricity problem impose 
    a tax on energy consumption?


- He has seen in the Mission that 
    the real problem is the gentrification of the Mission.


- The project sponsor has already 
    given a lot.


(+) Al Lopez


- He is happy to see that the Armory 
    is finally going to come to some conclusion.


- He thanks Sue Hestor for her energy 
    and trying to come to an agreement.


- The armory is a wonderful building.  He is 
    all for preservation.


- He wants to see harmony between 
    the developers


(+) Louis Loyal


- He was born in San Francisco and 
    his family has been here for three generations.


- This project deserves to be restored 
    for something useful.


(+) Jules Lavagi


- His family has been in San Francisco 
    for three generations.


- He lives here and pays his taxes 
    here.


- This is an opportunity to upgrade 
    the district 


(+) Keith Williams


- He has lived in the Mission District 
    for 11 years.


- He would like to have the suspension 
    on the Armory lifted.


ACTION:           Approved Lifting the Suspension


AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, 
    Salinas, Theoharis


ABSENT:          Baltimore, Joe


G
.         
    
PUBLIC COMMENT


At this time, members of the public may address the 
    Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject 
    matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.  With respect to 
    agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded 
    when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.  When the agenda 
    item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the 
    public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, 
    your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public 
    Comment portion of the Calendar.  Each member of the public may address the 
    Commission for up to three minutes. 


The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action 
    or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those 
    items raised at public comment.  In response to public comment, the commission 
    is limited to: 


(1) responding to statements made or 
    questions posed by members of the public; or


(2)  requesting staff to report back on a matter 
    at a subsequent meeting; or 


(3)  directing staff to place the item on a future 
    agenda.  (Government Code Section 54954.2(a))


Sue Hestor


Re: Smith-Kettlewell Report


- She would like to know if the Smith-Kettlewell 
    matter would be reported on next week?  She will not be able to attend the 
    hearing next week.


Courtney Clarkson – Pacific Heights 
    Board of Directors


Re:  Illegal parking on alleyways.


- She has noticed that some people 
    who have houses that face a major street and back onto an alleyway have been 
    paving over their yards and are parking their cars illegally.


- She would like to know if it's worth 
    her while to investigate this further and report to the Zoning Administrator.


- Does the ZA have any examples?


Adjournment: 
6:23 p.m
.


THE DRAFT MINUTES WERE PROPOSED FOR 
    ADOPTION AT THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON THURSDAY,
 
July 12, 2001.










Last updated: 11/17/2009 10:00:12 PM
<<Project End>>