<<Project Start>>
1.          (GREEN:  558-6411)
                    Discussion and consideration of proposed amendments to the Planning Commission's Inclusionary Housing Policy.
                    Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval
(Continued from Regular Meeting of October 4, 2001)
                    (Proposed for Continuance to October 18, 2001)
          SPEAKER (S): None
          ACTION:              Continued as proposed
              AYES:                  Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Salinas
            ABSENT:               Lim
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2.          2001.0327C          (WOODS: 558-6315)
                    2038 CLEMENT STREET - north side between 21st and 22nd Avenues, Lot 32 in Assessor's Block 1412 - Request for Conditional Use authorization under Section 717.39 of the Planning Code to demolish an existing two-story building containing retail on the ground floor and two dwelling units on the second floor and construct a new, four-story building containing three parking spaces on the ground floor and three dwelling units above the ground floor in the Outer Clement Street Neighborhood Commercial District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
                    Preliminary Recommendation: Pending
          (Continued from Regular Meeting of September 20, 2001)
          (Proposed for Continuance to October 25, 2001)
          
          SPEAKER(S):  None
          ACTION:              Continued as proposed
              AYES:                  Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Salinas
            ABSENT:               Lim
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
3.          2001.1190C                                                                                    (SANCHEZ: 558-6679)
2801-2825 CALIFORNIA STREET - southwest corner at Divisadero Street; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 1028 - Request for Conditional Use authorization pursuant to Section 711.83 of the Planning Code to install a total of three antennas and GPS receiver on the roof with related connection to an equipment shelter within the basement of an existing three-story, mixed-use building, as part of Sprint PCS’s wireless telecommunications network within an NC-2 (Small-Scale Neighborhood Commercial) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.  As per the City & County of San Francisco’s Wireless Telecommunications Services (WTS) Facilities Siting Guidelines the proposal is a Preferred Location Preference 5 as it is a mixed-use building within a high-density district.
Preliminary Recommendation: Pending
(Continued from Regular Meeting of September 20, 2001)
(Proposed for Continuance to October 25, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):   None
          ACTION:              Continued as proposed
              AYES:                  Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Salinas
            ABSENT:               Lim
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
4.          2001.0897D                                                                                           (SIDER: 558-6697)
                    747 – 3rd STREET - northeast side between King and Townsend Streets, Lot 005 in Assessor’s Block 3794 - Mandatory Discretionary Review of a  Dance Hall Keeper / Place of Entertainment  Police Permit at a property within the proposed Ballpark Vicinity Special Use District pursuant to Planning Commission Resolution Number 14844.The subject property is an existing restaurant and bar ( Curve Bar and Restaurant') located in an M-2 (Heavy Industrial) Zoning District, a 105-F Height and Bulk District, a Mixed-Use Housing Zone, and the proposed Ballpark Vicinity SUD. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Pending
(Proposed for Continuance to October 25, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):   None
          ACTION:              Continued as proposed
              AYES:                  Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Salinas
            ABSENT:               Lim
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
5.          2001.0254D                                                                                  (CABREROS:  558-6169)
                    3040 STEINER STREET - east side between Filbert and Union Streets, Lot 050 in Assessor’s Block 0534 - Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application No. 9913355S, proposing to construct a one-story penthouse measuring approximately 10x15 feet (150 square feet) on top of the flat roof of the existing two-unit building, with access to a new 300 square-foot roof deck to contain a spa in an RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and approve the project with modifications.
(Continued from Regular Meeting August 16, 2001)
(Proposed for Continuance to December 13, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):   None
          ACTION:              Continued as proposed
              AYES:                  Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Salinas
            ABSENT:               Lim
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
6.          2001.0774D                                                                        (M. SNYDER: 575-6891)
1 SOUTH PARK - southwest corner at 2nd Street, Lot 7 in Assessor’s Block 3775 - Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application No. 2000/08/26/8986 proposing to construct an additional floor within the existing building, change the use from manufacturing to business service use (for a total of 55,791 gross square feet of new business service use), and provide 28 attendant parking spaces.  The property is within an SSO (Service / Secondary Office) District, a 40-X Height and Bulk District, a Mixed-use Housing Zone, and the South End Historic District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Pending
(Proposed for Continuance to December 20, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):   None
          ACTION:              Continued as proposed
              AYES:                  Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Salinas
            ABSENT:               Lim
B.          COMMISSIONERS' QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
7.          Consideration of Adoption - draft minutes of August 16, and 23, 2001.  
          ACTION:     Approved
               AYES:         Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Salinas
               ABSENT:     Lim
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
8.          Commission Matters
          
          Commissioner Theoharis:       
Re:  Audit 
She would like for staff to keep the Commissioners informed on how much staff time is being used for this, what they are asking for and if this is having a negative impact on projects.
C.          DIRECTOR'S REPORT
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
9.          Director's Announcements
None
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
10.          Review of Past Week's Events at the Board of Supervisors and Board of Appeals
B of A:  Zoning Administrator and Board of Permit Appeals – settled to suit on Live/Work   and Conversion to Office
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
11.          1999.885C                                                                                (CHIN: 575-6897)
679 - 24TH AVENUE - Design revision to the Sprint PCS installation approved on May 15, 2001 on Pacific Gas & Electric’s Substation K.  This revision includes the reduction in diameter of the two fiberglass cylinders on the roof from 14 inches to 6.25 inches without the addition of a parapet.
INFORMATIONAL ITEM.  NO ACTION TAKEN
          SPEAKER(s): None
D.          REGULAR CALENDAR
          
          12a.          2000.497CV                     (CHIN: 575-6897)
                    611 JONES STREET - west side of Jones Street near the northwest corner of Jones and Geary; Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 0304 - Request for Conditional Use authorization pursuant to Sections 249.5(c)(14), 253(a) and 263.7 of the Planning Code to (1) demolish a single-family dwelling, (2) construct a building exceeding 40 feet in a Residential District, and (3) exception to exceed the base height limit of 80 feet. The proposed project is the construction an eight-story, 103 foot tall, seven unit condominium building, in a RC-4 (Residential-Commercial Combined, High Density) Zoning District, North of Market Special Use District-1 and an 80-130-T Height and Bulk District.
                    Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions.
                    (Continued from Regular Meeting of August 23, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):          
          (+) Mr. Porter
          - Supports the project
          ACTION:               Approved as amended:
                              - Sponsor to continue to work with staff on design prior to approval
              AYES:                   Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Lim, Salinas
          MOTION No.          16256
          12b.          2000.497CV                     (CHIN: 575-6897)
                    611 JONES STREET  - west side of Jones Street near the northwest corner of Jones and Geary; Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 0304  - Rear Yard Variance Sought: The proposal is to demolish a single family dwelling and construct an eight-story, 103 foot tall, seven unit condominium building, in a RC-4 (Residential-Commercial Combined, High Density) Zoning District, North of Market Residential Special Use District -1 and a 80-130-T Height and Bulk District.  Section 134(a)(1) of the Planning Code requires a minimum rear yard of 21 feet 10 inches for the subject property, measured from the rear property line.  The proposed building would encroach into the required rear yard by amounts varying approximately from 6 to 15 feet, thereby requiring a rear yard variance.          
                    (Continued from Regular Meeting of August 23, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):          Same as those listed in item 12a.
ACTION:               ZONING ADMINISTRATOR CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING AND HAS TAKEN THIS MATTER UNDER ADVISEMENT
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
13.          2000.1217C                                                                                  (DiBARTOLO: 558-6291)
                    1100-1126 POLK STREET (AKA:  1092 POST STREET) - northeast corner of Post and Polk Streets; Lot 12 in Assessor’s Block 692 - Request for Conditional Use authorization to allow amplified live and recorded music (defined as "Other Entertainment" by Planning Code Section 790.38) in an existing bar, d.b.a. The Lush Lounge, as required by Planning Code Section 723.48 in the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District and a 130-E Height and Bulk District.
          Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of September 13, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):   
          (+) Steve Black, Project owner
-          This is a bar for all ages,
-          This is a much need venue in the City
-          Wonderful, especially for young people who do not know about the great singers of the earliest 40s and 50s
-     This is not a gay bar
(+) Ross Owens
-  This is a wonderful place, and the best operated
-          One of the cleanest and best operated restaurants in the area
(+)  John McCulloch
-   Encourages people who have dreams to pursue them
-  Asked the Commission to approve the project
(+)  Richard Nichols
-  In support of the project
(+)  Marcy Lavitore
-     Supports project
(+)  Claudia (last name unclear)
-     It is a very safe and inspiring place
(+) Erick Trinkline, Singer
-    Had help (from this place) to develop his singing career
(+) Teresa Riley
-    We need to have a venue in order to grow and San Francisco needs to keep a place like this.
(+) Julie Drake
-    Supports project
(+) Gail Marco
-    It is an amazing place
-    Please keep this beautiful cabaret open
(+) Jane Marco
          -    We need to keep this place.  It is a heaven for the young singers 
          (+)  Dan Keller
          -    Supports project
(+) John (last name unclear)
          -    This bar has a great diversity
          -    It is a place where people go for the music
          (+) Bob Jules, Manager of the apartment building above the Lush Lounge
          -    Never had any one in his building complaint about this bar
          (+) Richard Stanton
          -    Supports project
          (+) Renee Branson
          -    This place needs to stay open
(+) Larry Oleno
          -    This is the perfect venue for this cosmopolitan city
          (+) David Simon
          -    This is a great friendly bar
          (+) Unclear name
          -    Supports project
(+) Dante (last name unclear)
          -   Supports project
          (+) Manager of the Lush Lounge 
-          Wonderful place for everybody
-          It is the first cabaret of its class in this neighborhood
-          It has enhanced the neighborhood
          (+) Joe O'Connell
          -    Supports project
          (-) Ms. Shirley Malloy
          -    Noise is very loud and she does not get sleep at night
          (-) John Malloy
          -   This place keeps me awake all night
          -   Has called police several times
          -   Noise is very loud
          ACTION:              Approved as amended:
1)            Hours of operation:
Wednesday – Saturday: 8:00 p.m. – 1:00 a.m.
Sunday – 4:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.
Monday & Tuesday – None
          2) Put up a sign to clients to be quiet when outside the restaurant
              AYES:                  Theoharis, Fay, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Joe, Lim, Salinas
            MOTION No.          16257
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
14.          2001.0595C                                                                             (WOODS: 558-6315)          
3478 CALIFORNIA STREET - north side between Locust and Laurel Streets, Lot 12 in Assessor’s Block 1019 - Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 121.2, 303 and 713.21 to exceed the permitted use size of 5,999 sq. ft. for the expansion of an existing business or professional service use (Charles Schwab & Company, Inc.) from approximately 3,175 square feet to approximately 7,606 square feet in an NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial Shopping Center District) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.          
                    Preliminary Recommendation: Disapproval
          SPEAKER(S):
          (+) Daniel Harper, Representing Charles Schwab
-          Provide off-site parking for their clientele
-          Will provide jobs for the people of the city of San Francisco
-     We have not received complaints from the merchants around the proposed project
          -     Urged the Commission to approve their project
          (+) John Paloglou, Charles Schwab, Presidio Heights Branch Manager
-          We need to provide privacy and security to our clients
          (+)  Mary Morrison, Senior Planning Manager
          -     Gave a description of the design
          (+) Kate Lowrey, customer of Charles Schwab
          -    Stated that this company will be an asset to this neighborhood
          -    Approve their project
          (+) Randy Brugiani
          -    Supports project
          (+) Jeffrey Litke, Building Owner
          -    Parking spaces will be provided for the customers
          (+) Craig Palmer
          -    It is a great convenience for neighbors in the area
          -    Urged Commission to move in favor for this project
          (+) Stella Chu
          -    Neighborhood supports this project
          (+) Wendy Wu
          -    Supports project
          (+) Stephanie Lan
          -    This will benefit the community
ACTION:          Public hearing closed.  Passed a motion of intent to approve.  Final Language 11/8/01
          AYES:                      Fay, Baltimore, Lim, Salinas
          NAYES:           Theoharis, Chinchilla, Joe
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
15.          2001.0552C          (SIROIS: 558-6313)
                    4610 MISSION STREET - north side of Mission Street, between San Juan Avenue and Norton Street, Lot 003 Assessor’s Block 3206 - Request for Conditional Use Authorization by Metro PCS to install a wireless telecommunications facility pursuant to Planning Code Section 712.83, which includes the installation of eight panel antennas, one GPS antenna and associated equipment cabinets in an NC-3 (Moderate-Scale Neighborhood Commercial) District and a 65-A Height and Bulk District. The subject site is a Preference Location 4.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of September 13, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):
(+) Debra Stein, representing Metro PCS
-  Recommended that Commission approve and impose conditions on the project
          (-) Tracy Hughes
          -  Disturbing that these people are not making any changes, any attempt to stop this application
          - This is totally a bad act of faith 
          ACTION:          Approved as amended:
-          Existing Antenna Installation:  No permit for the proposed antenna installation shall be granted until existing antennas are found to be in compliance with the 1996 Wireless Telecommunication guidelines.  Authorization for the proposed antenna installation shall not be granted until plans showing modifications to the Verizon antenna facility have been reviewed against the 1996 Wireless Telecommunication Guidelines and have meet these guidelines to the satisfaction of the Planning Department. 
-          Property Maintenance. Upon approval of the conditional use authorization, the property owner shall maintain the main entrance to the building and all sidewalks abutting the subject property in a clean condition. Such maintenance shall include, at a minimum, daily litter pickup and disposal, and washing or steam cleaning of the main entrance and abutting sidewalks at least once each two weeks.
          AYES:                      Theoharis, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas
          MOTION NO.          16258
16a.          2001.0685CR                                                                              (SMITH: 558-6322)
135 SANCHEZ STREET (SAN FRANCISCO FIRE STATION #6) - east side of the street between 14th and Market Streets, Lot 025 in Assessor's Block 3542- Request by Metro PCS for a General Plan Referral pursuant to Section 4.105 of the City/County Charter to install nine panel antennas, one GPS antenna, and ten equipment cabinets on the rooftop of a fire station located in a P (Public Use) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Finding of Consistency with the General Plan 
SPEAKER (S):
(+) Debra Stein, representing Metro PCS
-  Gave a very brief description of the project and asked Commission to approve application.
          (-)  Tracy Hughes
          -   Opposed the installation of more antennas in San Francisco
          ACTION:          Approved
          AYES:                      Theoharis, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas
          MOTION NO.          16259
16b.          2001.0685CR                                                                           (SMITH: 558-6322)
135 SANCHEZ STREET (SAN FRANCISCO FIRE STATION #6), east side of the street between 14th and Market Streets, Lot 025 in Assessor's Block 3542- Request by Metro PCS for Conditional Use Authorization under Planning Code Sections 234.2 and 209.6 (b) to install nine panel antennas, one GPS antenna, and ten equipment cabinets on the rooftop of a fire station located in a P (Public Use) District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The subject site is a Location Preference 1 site according to the Wireless Telecommunications Services (WTS) Siting Guidelines, as it is a publicly used structure.  
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKER(S):          Same as those listed in item 16a.
          ACTION:          Approved
          AYES:                      Theoharis, Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas
MOTION NO.          16260
At Approximately 4:10 PM the Planning Commission convened into a Discretionary Review (DR) Hearing to hear and act on Discretionary Review matters.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
17.          2001.0596DDDDD                                                                        (CABREROS: 558-6169)
760 EL CAMINO DEL MAR  - north side between Lake Street and 30th Avenue, Lot 2C in Assessor’s Block 1307 - Requests for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application Nos. 2000/1130/6911 and 2000/1130/6904 proposing to demolish an existing single-family house and construct a new 12,032 square-foot single-family house.  The new house is proposed to be two stories in height (26’-6" from grade to top of parapet) at its street frontage with two additional below-grade levels exposed at the rear of the house on a down sloping lot.  The project site is within an RH-1(D) (Residential, House, One-Family, Detached) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and approve the project with modifications.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of September 13, 2001)
          SPEAKER(S):
          (+) Bob McCarthy, Representing Mr. Rosenstein, DR requestor
-          There is no Unsound Building Report for demolition on this house
-          There has not been notification to the development community, to the activist and neighborhood organizations
-          This is a 12,000 sq. ft. house in a neighborhood in which the average house is 4,300 sq. ft. There is not other house of this size.
-          This house is too big
-          Violates the privacy of my client
(+) Brett Gladstone, representing Dr. & Mrs. Levin; Dr. & Mrs. Carter and Dr. & Mrs. Rosenberg, DR requestors
          -     Did not get any plans this week
-          Plans faxed to him were not legible
-          Direct light and air circulation is very important to the health of one of my clients
-          There are two aspects of the Wong's proposal that is insensitive to the Levin's; 1) original plans showed the garbage bin in the front yard.  We simply asked that they put it in the garage.  Instead they have been moved closer to the Levin's western bedroom window; 2) The Wongs decided to put a hot tub in the side yard between the two buildings.  Why can't they do what the rest of the City does, which is, to put a hot tub in the back yard or on a deck?
          (+) Mrs. Dolores Levin
-          My only window that gives direct light and air circulation is the western window and now that will be totally blocked. 
          (+) Dr. Sheldon Levin
-          Proposed plans are wrong
-          His wife is very ill and the only window in her bedroom will be blocked.
-          This is a huge project
-          Soil report submitted by the Wongs is incomplete.
-          Urged the Commission to not consider the application of this construction without a complete analysis of the soil report
          (+) Kate Carter, daughter of Dr. & Mrs. Carter 
          -    This home does not fit the neighborhood
          (+) Mrs. Martha Rosenberg
          -   This house is out of proportion to the neighborhood
          (+) John Sanger, Representing one of the DR requestors
-          Had not seen plans submitted today
-          This project is so clearly out of scale with the other houses in the neighborhood
-          Applicant never wants to compromise about anything
(+) Jeff Heller
          -     The community design is on a very delicate scale
          -     This is a neighborhood with charm and original texture and it has consistency
-          Density is out of proportion with the area
-          This is dramatic a departure in terms of the relationship of buildings in the neighborhood
          (+)  Pat Buscovich
          -     There is not an unsound building report
          (+) Frank Rollo, Registered Geotechnical Engineer
-          There are no records of mudslides on the property
-          Geotechnical reports prepared for the Wongs are complete with full detailed recommendations.
          (+) Peter Winkecstein
-          Supports the DR
-          Supports the concern that the neighbors have about this project
-          Concerned about the character, the size and placement of windows
-          Concerned about the height of the building
          (+) Fran Schall
          -    This is a dramatically big house--totally out of line.  It will damage the character of seacliff
          -    Concerned about the precedent that will be set
          -    This is an outrageous proposal
          -    Urged the Commission to disapprove this project
          (+) Donna Furth
          -    Concerned about the size and scale of the house
          (+)  William Waste
-          This project is very offensive
-          This house does not belong in this area
(+)  Stan Warren
-     This project is massively invasive
          (-)  Alice Barkley, representing the project sponsor
-          Soil report submitted by the Wong's is complete and accurate 
-          There was an ample notification about the development to the community, activists and neighborhood organizations
-          Gave a brief description of the project
-          Asked Commission to approve this project
          (-)  Ollie Lundberg, project architect
          -    Gave a very detailed description of the project
          (-)   Robert Allen
-          It is really a dynamic project to put on the seacliff
-          Seacliff needs changes, this project will give a different statement
          -     Urged the Commission to approve project
          (-)  Mary Philips
          -    In support of the project
          (-)  Joe Cassidy
          -     In support of the project
          (-) Ben Ng
          -   This will be an addition of a fine family home to this wonderful neighborhood
          (+) Emmanuel Shiu
          -    His sister is planning to build this house to help him with his handicap disabilities
          (-) Michael Willis
          -   This project is well designed and will compliment the neighborhood    
          (-) Daniel Barry, Attorney, representing David Hue 
          -   Supports project
          (-) Joe O'Donoghue
          -    Supports project   
ACTION:          Take Discretionary Review and approve the project with modifications:
-          Proposed solar panels on the roof shall not project above the height of the parapet.
-          Property line walls/fences shall be no more than 6 ft. and will be lower than the existing walls on the Rosenstein's east property line and similar in height to the existing fences on the property line adjacent to the Levin's lot.
-          Eliminate the proposed trash enclosure between the subject building and the Levin residence at the front yard.
-          The overall massing and volume shall be articulated to address the monotony of the side faces and the level roof/parapet line.
-          At the top level (level above the garage), the rear northeast corner of the proposal shall be set back 22 ft. from the rear wall and 8 ft. from the side wall.  At the street (garage) level, the rear northeast corner of the proposal shall be set back 11 feet from the rear wall and 8 ft. from the side wall.
-          At the garage level, the walls and door containing the garage should be setback from the front and side to create shadow lines and to decrease the boxiness of the design.
-          The entrance canopy shall be reduced to a height that is more residential in scale.
-          On the proposed building, the palette of exterior finish materials used shall be reduced/simplified, particularly on the front faÃ§ade.  Natural-finished wood shall not be used, as it is not characteristic of the block-face.
          AYES:            Fay, Chinchilla, Joe, Lim
          NAYES:          Theoharis, Baltimore, Salinas
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
18.          2001.0703D                                                                                    (SMITH: 558-6322)
1151 CHURCH STREET - east side of the street between 23rd and 24th Streets , Lot 029 in Assessor's Block 3650 - Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application Nos. 2001/02/06/1454 and 2001/02/06/1455, proposing to demolish an existing one-story over basement, single-family dwelling and construct a four-story over two basement levels five unit building with a stair penthouse at the rear that extends 8’-0" above the height of the roof, located in a RM-1 (Residential, Mixed, Low Density) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and approve the project with           modifications.
SPEAKER(S):
(+)  Delvin Burkbanks, DR Requestor
-     Asked Mr. Graff to do the presentation regarding the case
(+)  Leonard Graff
-          It is a sound building and does not need to be demolished
-          This project presents a major safety issue for people with disabilities
-    Concerned about the driveway which it is right in front of a crosswalk
(+)  Lauren Bruder
-     It is out of scale
-    Will have a bad impact on the neighborhood
(+) Lisa Tongue
-    Concerned about parking
(+)  Mara Tongue
-    Concerned about the garage being across a cross walk          
-    Concerned about the ADA issue
(+) Perry Dobson
-    Urged the Commission to disapprove the project    
(+) Tracy Hughes
-    Our neighborhood has become a terrorist zone
-    It will change the character of the building
(+) Joshua Yocuk
-     Disapprove the project
(+) Dale Ravenoff
-          His kitchen will be in complete darkness 
-          His only lightwell will be blocked 
(-)  Alice Barkley, representing project sponsor     
-          Mentioned to Commission about the unsound report from the Building Department
-          Building was in fact vacant, before it was purchased
-          Indicated to the Commission that the friends of Project Sponsor are living there to prevent the building from being vandalized
-          Garage driveway is in the same location as it is now, to her knowledge there has not been any incident to address the concern about safety
-          Urged Commission to approve the project
(-) Project Architect
-  Gave a description of the changes done on the plans
          (-) Joe O'Donoghue
-    Supports project
ACTION:          Take Discretionary Review and approve with modifications:
-          Install a light well along the north side property line to match the adjacent neighbor's light well.
-          The permit applicant must work with Department staff to improve the design of the proposed project, particularly to uniform the roof and the front elevation.
-          Move the garage entrance from the crosswalk to the north side of the property.
AYES:            Theoharis, Fay, Chinchilla, Baltimore, Lim, Salinas
NAYES:          Joe
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
19.          2001.0773D                                                                             (JONES: 558-6477)
                    154 DEL VALE AVENUE - south side between Encline Court and Arroyo Way; Lot 012 in Assessor’s Block 2949A - Request for a Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application 2000/10/11/2649 to construct a new third story and a rear horizontal addition to the existing two story, single-family dwelling in an RH-1 (Residential, House, Single-Family Dwelling) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review.  Approve the building permit as revised.
SPEAKERS:
(+) Hilary Mahon
-     Would cause a considerable loss of air and light to her property
(+) Pauline Kilkelly
-    Concerned about the size of the project
(+) Monika Neuendorf
-    Concerned about the size
-    Would lose a lot of air and light
(+) Don Lorenson
-    Will destroy the character of the neighborhood
(+) Joseph Keawkalaya
-    Urged the Commission to take Discretionary Review and disapprove the project
(+) Elizabeth Keawkalaya
-    Disapprove the project
(+) (Name unclear)
-    Concerned about the size and scale of the house
ACTION:          Do not take Discretionary Review and approve as revised
AYES:            Theoharis, Baltimore, Chinchilla Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas
F.          PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.  When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.  Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes. 
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.  In response to public comment, the commission is limited to: 
(1) responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2) requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or 
(3) directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.  (Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
SPEAKER (S):
Abdalla Megahed
Re: Helping homeless in the City
Joe O'Donoghue
Re: Sue Hestor's interpretation of the Marsha Rosen Discretionary Review case
Linda Avery
Re: - Reminded Commissioners about next weeks joint hearing with the Rec./Park Commission
      - Reminded Commissioners that next week she will leave the hearing early--5:00 p.m.
Adjournment: 8:45 p.m.
THE DRAFT MINUTES WERE PROPOSED FOR ADOPTION AT THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2001.
          SPEAKERS:  None
          ACTION:   Approved as corrected:  page 7, item 15, ACTION:  Existing Antenna
Installation:  No permit for the proposed antenna installation shall be granted until existing antennas are found to be in compliance with the 1996 Wireless Telecommunication guidelines.  Authorization for the proposed antenna installation shall not be granted until plans showing modifications to the Verizon antenna facility have been reviewed against the 1996 Wireless Telecommunication Guidelines and have meet these guidelines to the satisfaction of the Planning Department.
          AYES:            Baltimore, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
          ABSENT:       Chinchilla and Fay
 
 
 






Last updated: 11/17/2009 10:00:13 PM
<<Project End>>