<<Project Start>>
2001.0147D                                                                                     
    (NIKITAS: 558-6306)


 
2645 BAKER 
    STREET
  - west side between Union and Green Streets; Lot 003 in Assessor's 
    Block 0949.  
Requests for 
    Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application Nos. 2000/10/19/3483 and 
    2000/10/19/3487 to demolish a 3-story residence and build a new 4-story two-family 
    home in an RH-2/40-X District.


 
Preliminary 
    recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve the project as 
    submitted.




(Proposed for Continuance to June 14, 2001)




SPEAKER(S):    None




ACTION:           Continued to June 14, 2001




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore






 
2.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2001.0251D                                                                                    
    (BORDEN: 558-6321)




2935 PACIFIC AVENUE
 - south side of Pacific between Baker and 
    Broderick Streets,  Lot 27 in Assessor’s Block 976.  Staff-initiated Discretionary 
    Review of Building Permit Application No. 2000/12/21/8481 to merge three dwelling 
    units into two units in an RM-2 (Mixed Residential, Moderate Density) District 
    and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.   




Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and disapprove 
    the building permit application.




(Proposed for Continuance to June 21, 2001)




SPEAKER(S):    None




ACTION:           Continued to June 21, 2001




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore


 
3.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2000.0173C                                                                                         
    (LIGHT: 558-6254)




500 FRANCISCO STREET (a.k.a. 401-499 BAY STREET & 501-599 BAY 
    STREET
) - north side of Francisco Street between Mason Street and Columbus 
    Avenue; Lot 1 in both Assessor’s Blocks 42 and 43. 
 
Request 
    for a Conditional Use Authorization of a planned unit development for approximately 
    360 affordable housing units, a child care center, a computer learning center, 
    ground level retail, and small scale neighborhood-serving office space in 
    an RM-3 (Residential, Mixed, Medium Density) District and a 40-X Height and 
    Bulk District.




Preliminary Recommendation: Pending




(Proposed for Continuance to July 19, 2001)




SPEAKER(S):    None




ACTION:           Continued to July 19, 2001




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore


 
4.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2001.0261DDDD                                                                        
    (WOLOSHYN: 558-6612)


 
322 
    28TH AVENUE and 326 28TH AVENUE
 - east side between California and Clement 
    Streets, Lots 037 and 038 in Assessor’s Block 1406.  Requests for four separate 
    Discretionary Reviews (two for each lot) for permits pertaining to the tandem 
    demolition of a single family house and reconstruction of a two-unit, three-story 
    over garage building on each lot (Building Application Nos. 9920290 and 9920291 
    pertain to 322 28th Avenue, and Application Nos. 9920288 and 9920289 pertain 
    to 326 28th Avenue) in an RH-2 (Residential House, Two-family) District and 
    a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


 
Preliminary 
    Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and approve the project with modifications.


 
(Proposed for Continuance to July 12, 2001)




SPEAKER(S):    None




ACTION:           Continued to July 12, 2001




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore


 
5.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2001.0242C                                                                                  
    (SANCHEZ: 558-6679)




87 PARNASSUS AVENUE
 - southeast corner at Cole Street; Lot 022 
    in Assessor’s Block 1278.
 
Request 
    for Conditional Use Authorization to allow the conversion of an existing nonconforming 
    small self-service restaurant to a full-service restaurant as required per 
    Planning Code Section 186.1(c)(3)(A) and defined in Sections 790.91 and 790.90, 
    within an NC-1 (Neighborhood Commercial Cluster) District and a 40-X Height 
    and Bulk District.




ACTION:           Project Withdrawn






 
6.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2000.1061E                                                                                     
    (WYCKO: 558-5972)




400 Paul Avenue
 - 
bounded by 
    Paul Avenue, Third Street, Bayshore Boulevard and railroad spur track, Lot 
    14 of Assessor's Block 5431A.  The proposal is an 
Appeal of a Preliminary Negative Declaration 
for the demolition 
    of an existing 40-foot-high warehouse/distribution building, which totals 
    approximately 89,400 gross square feet to be replaced by a newly constructed 
    65-foot-high structure with 339,300 gross square feet of space for Internet 
    and telecommunication equipment and 155 off-street parking spaces. The proposed 
    facilities would be warehouses for telecommunication switches and operational 
    equipment that provides data services to Internet users. The proposed project 
    is an allowed use within M-1 District and is situated within an Industrial 
    Protection Zone.


 
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Uphold Preliminary Negative Declaration


 
(Continued from 
    Regular Meeting of April 26, 2001)


 
(Proposed for 
    Indefinite Continuance)




SPEAKER(S):    None




ACTION:           Continued Indefinitely




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore


B.
 
COMMISSIONERS' QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
 


 
7.         Commission Matters


 
Commissioner Theoharis:
  There is an article 
    in today's Chronicle (5/17/01), which stated:   Red Tape Snarls Armory Conversion  
    and that the owners of the project have spent $31.5 Million.  She would like 
    some clarification if the amount printed on the newspaper is just the construction 
    costs and if there has been construction going on at the Armory.  Larry Badiner, 
    Zoning Administrator, responded that the amount stated in the paper is for 
    purchase price and construction drawings.  no actual construction has taken 
    place.


 
Commission Secretary
:  There will be a group 
    picture of the Commissioners on

    June 7, 2001.


 
Commissioner Salinas:
 Requested information 
    on 2472 Clay Street.  Allison Borden of staff will provide this information 
    to the Commissioner.


 
Commissioner Chinchilla:
  Requested more information 
    on the Smith-Kettlewell Abbreviated Institutional Master Plan.


C.
 
DIRECTOR'S REPORT


 
8.         Director's Announcements


 
New Commissioner


 
The Director presented 
    the new Commissioner, Myrna Lim, to the public and welcomed her aboard.






 
9.         Review of Past Week's Events 
    at the Board of Supervisors and Board of Appeals




BOS:




Finance Committee




The Board did consider the request for a supplemental appropriation 
    of approximately $1.9 Million.  They did agree with the recommendations of 
    the Finance Committee and they did essentially authorize the appropriation 
    of the funds.  However, as recommended by the Finance Committee, they did 
    not authorize or release the four positions that were part of that request.  
    The Department will have to request these positions in June, when the Director 
    talks to the Finance Committee about the full budget for the next fiscal year.  
    Supervisor Amiano would like to talk about the budget process in one step 
    instead of breaking it up into two separate steps.




Legislation regarding the Conditional Use appeal procedure:




- Supervisor Peskin amended it by stating that it would take 5 supervisors 
    instead of 4, in order to hear an appeal.  The effective date of the legislation 
    would be February 9, 2001.  The supervisors who will participate don't have 
    to be the supervisor of that particular district.




BOA
 - None




Building Inspection Commission




He attended a Building Inspection Commission regarding the formation 
    of an Unlawful Demolition Subcommittee.  They are trying to deal with a portion 
    of their code that many people, both in neighborhood groups and in the building 
    trades, believe is unclear and unenforceable.  He believes that there are 
    a lot of people who feel that there is a problem.  He has been working with 
    members of the Building Department and with neighborhood groups and with people 
    involved in the building trades to develop a proposal that he believes everyone 
    can live with.  This will have some impact upon the Planning Code, particularly 
    the noticing provisions of Section 311.


 
10.                                                                                                     
    (ALUMBAUGH:  558-6601)




Informational Presentation on Planning Department efforts to devise 
    policies and regulations to replace the Interim Controls which are currently 
    in place in all Industrially-Zoned Districts.  These Interim Controls will 
    expire on August 5, 2001.  




SPEAKER(S):




Joe O'Donaghue




- There is a housing crisis in this city and already, we're getting 
    a plethora of restrictions and proposed restrictions, as we saw last week 
    at the Board of Supervisors.




- The question is this:  With all this legislation, is this going to 
    increase the supply of housing?




- Once these restrictions are in place, will the people who put these 
    restrictions in place, stop screaming and blaming everyone else but themselves 
    for the lack of increase in supply and for the high prices?




- There will be no more construction in this City because when Conditional 
    Use restrictions are placed, as was done last week, it's going to increase 
    the cost.




- It's a business unfriendly city and the most affected will be the 
    nonprofit housing developments.




Lu Blazej




- He is representing Federal Express.  They are here in San Francisco 
    and have a facility at 8
th
 and Harrison Street.  They would like 
    to build a new distribution facility in the industrial area (M-2 Zoning area) 
    one of the areas that Director Green identified as an area to be kept as industrial.




- There isn't vacant industrial land of any significance in the City 
    so something has to be torn down.  Yet this requires a conditional use.




- This legislation would be a hardship for industrial users that want 
    to stay in the City.




Sue Hestor




- Two years is along time to wait to have some areas rezoned for housing 
    as a legal use.  People have been waiting a year and nine months and apparently 
    nothing has been done.




- One can't go from a conditional use to a permitted use or from a 
    banned use to a permitted use without doing an EIR.  An environmental review 
    has to be done.




- Months ago, staff should have come up with a project at least to 
    do the parts that can allow housing that hasn't had any opposition.




- Now, two months before the controls are supposed to expire, is awfully 
    late in the process.




- She is glad that there will be hearings in June but wishes that these 
    hearings could have been done last June or last November.  It's frustrating 
    because she feels that we won't meet the deadline.




ACTION:           Informational Presentation Only.  No Action Required. 
    


D.         REGULAR CALENDAR


 
11.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2000.0173E                                                                                     
    (AHMADI: 558-5966)


 
North Beach Hope IV 
    Housing Redevelopment Project (aka 500 Francisco Street)
 
- 
Environmental Impact Report Certification
.   Assessor's Block 
    42, Lot 1 and Assessor's Block 43, Lot 1.  The project is the demolition of 
    13 three-story buildings containing 229 units of rental public housing units 
    and child care facilities for 38 children, and construction of 14 three- to 
    four-story buildings with 360 units of affordable housing, neighborhood serving 
    ground floor retail and commercial office space, child care facilities for 
    38 children, and one level of below-grade parking in the Fisherman's Wharf 
    area.  The 360 units would include 229 units of rental public housing, and 
    131 units of rental affordable housing of which 48 would be designated for 
    senior housing.  The project would provide 404 independently accessible parking 
    spaces.  The site is approximately 200,000 square feet, bordered by Bay Street, 
    Francisco Street, Mason Street and Columbus Avenue.  The project would require 
    a Conditional Use Authorization from the Planning Commission to permit planned 
    unit development under Sections 303 and 304 of the Planning Code.  




Please Note:  The public hearing for this item is closed.  The public 
    comment period for the Draft EIR ended on April 17, 2001.  The Planning Commission 
    does not conduct public review of the Final EIR's.  However, public comment 
    on the certification may be presented to the Planning Commission.




Preliminary Recommendation: Certify EIR




SPEAKER(S):    None




ACTION:           EIR Certified




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore




EXCUSED:        Lim




MOTION:          16164


 
12.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2001.0150R


(ASSEFA: 558-6625)


 
20th 
    STREET VACATION (aka 740 VERMONT STREET
) - Consideration of a proposal 
    to vacate a portion of 20th Street between Vermont and San Bruno Streets.


 
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Finding proposal not in conformity with the General Plan.




SPEAKER(S):    None




ACTION:           Continued Without Hearing to May 24, 2001




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore






 
13.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2000.527C


(CRAWFORD:  558-6358)




1635 CALIFORNIA STREET 
 - south side between Van Ness Avenue 
    and Polk Street, Lot 014 in Assessor
’
s Block 0646.  Request for Conditional 
    Use Authorization under Planning Code Sections 303, 723.21, 121.2, 723.11 
    and 121.1 for a nonresidential use exceeding 3,000 square feet in area and 
    for development of a lot exceeding 10,000 square feet in area in the Polk 
    Neighborhood Commercial district.  This project is for demolition of an existing 
    single story building, currently used as a parking garage, and construction 
    of a 5 story over basement, 63 foot tall, mixed use building with 15,342 square 
    feet of commercial office or retail space on the first two levels, 10 residential 
    units on the fourth and fifth levels and 56 parking spaces in the basement 
    and on the third level.  This project lies within the Polk Neighborhood Commercial 
    District and within the 65-A Height and Bulk District.




Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
.




SPEAKER(S):




(+) Dan Sullivan – Representing Project Sponsor




- They submitted 
    an application which was summarized and is included in the Commissioner's 
    packet.




- Department staff encouraged the housing in this proposal.




- He asks that the Commission approve the project.




ACTION:           Approved as amended: 1) final material be reviewed 
    by staff and approved by the Planning Director; 2) any proposal over 3,000 
    square feet would require a new Conditional Use.




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore




MOTION:          16165




14.        1999.885C                                                                                            
    (CHIN: 575-6897)




679 - 24
th
 AVENUE
 - northwest corner at Balboa Street; 
    Lot 012 in Assessor’s Block 1567. Request for Conditional Use Authorization 
    pursuant to Section 209.6 of the Planning Code to install a total of three 
    antennas and a base transceiver station on the existing Pacific Gas & 
    Electric Substation building as part of Sprint's wireless telecommunications 
    network in an RH-2 (Residential, Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height and 
    Bulk District.
 
As per the Wireless Telecommunications 
    Guidelines, the subject site is a Preference 1.




Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions




SPEAKER(S):




(+) Robert Crebs – Representing Project Sponsor




- This petition 
    complies with the WTS siting guidelines, the San Francisco Municipal Code, 
    and the Federal Communications Commission's RF Standards.




- The engineers have determined that this site is necessary to provide 
    improvement in service to LAN lines, safety for residents and visitors of 
    San Francisco, and provide a wider coverage of this area.




- There were three community meetings held and 13 people attended the 
    first meeting, 6 people attended the second meeting and 3 people attended 
    the third meeting.




- Notices were sent out in three languages.




ACTION:           Approved as amended:  Sponsor to continue to work 
    with staff and design a false parapet in order to block antenna from view.  
    If PG&E does not approve parapet, the proposal will come back before the 
    Commission.




AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Baltimore




MOTION:          16166






 
15.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2000.305C                                                                                          
    (SMITH: 558-6322)




106-110 West Portal Avenue (a.k.a. 101 VICENTE STREET)
 - northwest corner at Vicente Street; Lot 001 in Assessor's Block 
    2988A.  Request to amend the existing Conditional Use Authorization for Motion 
    No. 14300 under Planning Code Sections 729.53 and 729.21 to expand an existing 
    Charles Schwab stock brokerage (classified as a Business or Professional Service) 
    into the adjacent ground story storefront and increase the occupied floor 
    area of the use from 2,700 square feet to 3,962 square feet, located in the 
    West Portal Neighborhood Commercial District and 26-X Height and Bulk District. 
    


 
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Approval with conditions




SPEAKER(S):




(+) Robert McCarthy – McCarthy & Swartz - representing Charles 
    Swabb




- In 1997 Charles Schwab opened an office in the West Portal area.




- They have received over 1,200 signatures in support of this project.




- They are in complete conformity of the zoning requirements for this 
    proposal.




- The need to expand is because there are more and more customers who 
    are requesting the services of the brokers and provide confidential services 
    to these clients.  Currently brokers are meeting with clients in open cubicles.




- There is also an overwhelming support of merchants in the neighborhood.




- There are about 30 or more people here in support of this project.




(+) Art Belingson




- A few months a go they opposed the expansion of Charles Schwab.  
    For a few years, they have been good neighbors.




- They provided money to their street cleaning.




- In the last 5 years, West Portal has increased its commercial retail 
    spaces.  This gives vibrancy to the neighborhood.




- West Portal is very unique.  The neighbors are not closed-minded.




(+) Fred J. Martin Jr.




- He knows how hard the Commission works.




- He lives on the same block where Charles Schwab wants to expand.




- He believes that Schwab needs the extra space.




- Financial institutions are regular hour servicing organizations.




- He thinks that Schwab adds to their neighborhood.  He tries to do 
    everything on West Portal so that he doesn't have to get into his car.




(+) Marie Lee




- She is a residence of Ingleside Terrace.




- She supports the expansion of Charles Schwab.




- She remembers when her husband was very happy when Charles Schwab 
    would be moving into the neighborhood.




- Having Charles Schwab present in this community has helped many people 
    with their financial needs.




- Charles Schwab is very conveniently located and has convenient hours 
    as well.




- She has been a client of Charles Schwab for many years.  Their staff 
    has always been very courteous and helpful.




(+) Terry Durkan




- He displayed a diagram of how the cubicles are very open and not 
    very confidential for clients.




- The expansion would provide office space so clients would be able 
    to have privacy.




(+) (name unclear)




- Since opening their office in this area, they have improved their 
    services to the community.




- The needs of their customers have changed.  Their financial needs 
    have become complex and detailed.




- The size of their current space prohibits them from providing the 
    best confidential financial service.




- When they first leased the space, they did not have the need to increase 
    their staff.




- He asks that the Commission approve their request for expansion.




- Their customers patronize other businesses in the West Portal area.




(+) Suki Lee – Branch Manager of Charles Schwab




- She supports the expansion of their office.




- Their expansion plan is very well received by the neighborhood.




- They have received over 1,200 signatures of customers and businesses 
    who support their expansion.




- They have serviced over 36,000 customers.  They did a random survey 
    and 96% indicated that they frequent other merchants while visiting Charles 
    Schwab.




- She hopes that the Commission will support this proposal.




(+) Victoria Minas




- She has been working in West Portal for about 13 years as a hairdresser.




- She has her own financial problems so she is a Charles Schwab customer.  
    When she goes to this office she feels self-conscious about speaking about 
    her financial problems and having other people listen.




- There are a lot of elderly people living in the West Portal area 
    who can visit this office and not have to travel all the way downtown.




(+) Jeffrey Eng




- Their neighborhood association borders the West Portal neighborhood.




- Their members frequent the West Portal Avenue shops.




- He is here to speak as an individual and to speak as a West Portal 
    employee.




- His organization is frequently analyzing projects in his neighborhood 
    and they always look to approving projects that will benefit the neighborhood.  
    The expansion of Charles Schwab is definitely a benefit to the neighborhood.




- He has worked at Charles Schwab for 3 years and has been very happy 
    working there.




(-) Mathew Rogers – Papenhausen Hardware




- He owns two businesses in this neighborhood.




- His opposition is not about Charles Schwab.  It is about the process 
    and how this came about.




- Ms. Lee contacted the West Portal Business Association about the 
    expansion.  There wasn't any community meetings or input about this expansion.




- A community room can be built in the space where Charles Schwab wants 
    to use but they were never given a chance to suggest it.




- Charles Schwab needs to expand but a more creative way needs to be 
    developed.




- Expanding behind the current location would not loose any space that 
    could be used for something else.




(-) Kathryn Claitor




- She owns Shaws Candy Store




- She is concerned about the loss of retail space.  She feels that 
    there should be some compromise.




- She has a lot of people who are interested in the vacant retail space.




- Weekend hours are her busiest days.  




(-) Ray Doyle




- She is opposed to the project.  She agrees with what the previous 
    speakers have said.




- She attended a West Portal Association meeting on December 2, 1999.  
    Brian Buckner did come and mentioned he was interested in locating on West 
    Portal Avenue.  He was told by one of the members of the association that 
    Schwab had the locale and it was not available for anyone else.




- Although she is not against Schwab, she would rather see a retail 
    storefront there.




- She doesn't agree with a store that is closed on Sunday and half 
    day on Saturday.




- The first floor of this locale should be vibrant; they should just 
    move the offices on the second floor if they want privacy.






 
(-) 
    Bud Wilson – Greater West Portal Association




- He would like to regress here for a second.




- Reference has been made here to the number of vacancies on West Portal.




- He remembers coming to the Commission within the last eight years, 
    there was 13 vacancies on West Portal.




- The neighborhood district controls have worked well to preserve and 
    protect the street and the retail small business community.  Now they are 
    here trying to defend another small business location.




ACTION:           Approved




AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, 
    Theoharis




MOTION:          16167


E.


SPECIAL DISCRETIONARY REVIEW HEARING


At Approximately
 4:30
 p.m.
 the Planning Commission convened 
    into a Special Discretionary Review (DR) Hearing.


 
16.        2001.0253D                                                                                       
    (JONES: 558-6477)


 
3868-96 NORIEGA STREET
 - n
ortheast corner of Noriega Street between 46th and 47th Avenues; 
    Lots 53, 54 and 55 in Assessor's Block 2004.  Request for Discretionary Review 
    of Building Permit Applications: 9927325, 9937326, 9937327
 
for the demolition of a two-story structure 
    and the construction of three, mixed-use buildings, each containing three 
    residential units (total 9 units) over commercial space in an NC-1 (Neighborhood 
    Commercial Cluster District) and a 40-X Height and Bulk District. 


 
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do 
    not take Discretionary Review and approve the project as submitted.


 
(Continued from Regular Meeting 
    of May 10, 2001)


 
 
Note: On April 26, 2001, after public testimony the Commission closed the 
    public hearing and continued the matter to May 10, 2001 instructed staff to 
    explore finish materials for each building.




SPEAKER(S):




(+) Lou Blazej




- The proposed 
    building has distinction and individuality.




- He described the material of the exterior.




- He displayed another project by the same architect.




ACTION:           Took DR and instructed staff to continue to work 
    on material and landscaping.




AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Lim


 
17.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2001.0141D                                                                               
    (CABREROS: 558-6169)


 
1041 LAKE 
    STREET
 - 
south side between 11th and 12th Avenues, Lot 043 in Assessor’s 
    Block 1371.  Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application 
    No. 2000/09/07/9909 proposing to extend the rear of the building and to construct 
    two additional floors to the existing building (one-story over garage).  A 
    second story deck is also proposed within the required rear yard as permitted 
    by the Planning Code.  The proposed alteration occurs within the permitted 
    building envelope in an RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) District and 
    a 40-X Height and Bulk District.




Preliminary Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and disapprove 
    the project.




SPEAKER(S):    




(-) Tracy Thompson – DR Requestor




- 
 
She lives next door 
    to the proposed expansion.




- She received a letter and voice mail message from the project sponsor 
    who wanted to request a continuance and meet with her to come to a compromise.




- She would support a continuance and welcome a dialog but hoped that 
    there was enough time to review the revised plans.




- A letter was sent to the Commission requesting a continuance.




- She would like to request that this hearing be continued in order 
    to review the revised plans and perhaps come to an agreement and/or resolution.




- 
The 4
th
 floor is definitely 
    an issue.  Although there are other issues:  1) the effect that the 4
th
 
    story structure would have on the trio of post 1906 cottages, 2) the affect 
    on rear yards of the neighbors; and 3) the affect of her light and air blockage.




- Apart from San Francisco Heritage she has support from the Richmond 
    District Association and Richmond Community Association.  Every neighbor who 
    is in the immediate vicinity is opposing the project.  The appropriate way 
    to proceed would be to see the plans and if there are no further issues to 
    come to an agreement.




(-) Barbara Gault




- She lives on 12
th
 Avenue and her house shares a back yard 
    with the proposed construction.




- She is blessed with a beautiful view and a wonderful garden.




- These gardens create a wonderful oasis which many neighbors treasure.




- She will be commenting about the 2
nd
 set of plans that 
    were developed.




- Her lot is smaller than most lots and the proposed deck will come 
    out close to her yard and create a privacy problem.




- The construction will significantly create a problem to her light 
    and air.




(-) Bill Sugaya - Architect




- He was hired by the DR requestor to review the plans of the proposal.




- He served as president of the Landmarks Board many years ago.




- The changes made to the current plans do not deal with the historical 
    significance of the building and the height of the building.




- The issue of compatibility should be taken into account.




- The proposed project is supposed to be reduced in size.




(-) Susie Eng




- She lives on Lake Street.




- She has lived at this house for more than 25 years.  She has seen 
    many remodels to their homes.  None of the projects have been out of scale 
    to the guidelines of the neighborhood.




- The interesting design of these cottages gives the neighborhood a 
    distinctive look.




- The proposed construction would take away a lot of the charm of the 
    neighborhood.




- She would like the plans to be reduced by one floor.




(-) Racher Meyer




- It is really important for her and her family to be able to see the 
    green of the yards in her neighborhood.




- Privacy and mid-open space are issues to her.




(-) Chuck Lantz




- When he first saw the plans for this house, he determined that this 
    is a monster home.




- He wouldn't even consider constructing something like this.




- He feels that someone is going to move in and then move out.




- He hopes that the Commission gives the neighbors time to talk to 
    the developer.




(-) Vince Meyer




- He lives on Lake Street; he has lived there since 1975.




- He feels that he has been lead negatively about this project.




- A large portion of the house will be demolished so he doesn't understand 
    why it's not considered a demolition.




- There will be loss of lighting and character of the neighborhood, 
    and loss of time for coming to this hearing.




- The decks will definitely be a problem to their privacy.






 
 
(-) Laura Patterson




- She hates speaking in front of this many people but this is how strongly 
    she feels about this.




- She feels that there is a general misconception that there is one 
    large house after another all the way from Arguello Boulevard to Sea Cliff.




- One would find a pleasant mixed residential street with amenities 
    not often found on larger streets.




- The larger buildings closer to Park Presidio Boulevard are typically 
    six to eight unit apartment buildings with some smaller single-family houses.




- The block where her family lives, between 11
th
 and 12
th
 
    Avenues, is anchored with such apartment buildings.




- She believes that this project is inappropriate for the site and 
    will be detrimental to the block.




- She is concerned that the project will block her sunlight and will 
    have to deal with the construction, the porta potty and construction vehicles 
    taking over parking spaces.




(-) Deborah Jenkins




- She has been a resident of San Francisco for 10 years.  She 
    lives on Sacramento Street but walks often on Lake Street.




- One of the unique things of Lake Street are the cottages on that 
    block.




- Allowing a monster home to replace a little cottage will begin to 
    destroy the uniqueness of the homes in San Francisco.




(-) Eugenia Perez




- She lives on 12
th
 Avenue.  The back yard of the proposed 
    site comes to the side of her property.




- She wrote a letter, which she submitted, to the Commission expressing 
    her opposition to the project.




- She has a very small yard.




- She has a lot of privacy in her yard but with the proposed construction 
    she will lose that.




- A 4-story building or a 3-story building will give her the impression 
    that she is standing next to an elevator shaft.




- Her oasis will be in full view of a 4
th
 or 3
rd
 
    floor view.




- She requests that the Commission not approve projects that demand 
    so much space.




(-) Michael Paulson




- He lives on Lake Street and has lived there for 25 years.




- This neighborhood is open and light.  One can walk down streets in 
    San Francisco and see lot after lot.




- This project will become the biggest house on the block.  It will 
    be bigger than the flats.  It will be bigger than the small apartment building 
    at the other end.




(-) Hiroshi Fukuda




- He is a pharmacist and is a long term resident of the Richmond 
    District.  




- He purchased his house in the early 1970s.




- There was a meeting held in the neighborhood where all the neighbors 
    who attended were very cordial and pleasant.  He was very surprised because 
    when he saw the plans, they shocked him because it was so large.  He assumed 
    that the project sponsor had a very large family or a very large extended 
    family, but he did not.




(-) Helen Lantz




- She wishes the Commissioners can come to Lake Street and get an idea 
    of what the neighborhood is really like.




- There are 3 people who live on a 2
nd
 story flat.




- The proposed construction will create an impact on the light and 
    air of her neighbors.




- It is not in the context of the neighborhood.


 


(-) Blake Hallanan




- She lives on 12
th
 Avenue




- If the Commission approves this project, it will send a message to 
    developers to build bigger.




- She urges the Commission not to approve the project.




(+) Ana Dirkising




- She submitted new plans to the Commission, which eliminate the 4
th
 
    Story.




- She and her husband have two children and live a few blocks away 
    from the proposed construction, which they will be living in.




- They are willing to talk to the department and eliminate the 4
th
 
    floor.




- They have looked at other places for a home.  They love the neighborhood 
    so much and would like to continue living there.




- From her property line, her house already has a setback.




- She displayed a diagram of the block and lots.  There are many houses 
    that have large lot sizes.




- She is willing to eliminate the 4
th
 floor if that is what 
    the Commission requires.




ACTION:           Take DR and approve project with the following amendments:  
    1) remove 4
th
 floor; 2) new design should be reviewed and approved 
    by staff.




AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Lim


 
18.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2001.0426D                                                                                            
    (FU: 558- 6613)


 
43 ELLSWORTH 
    STREET
 - east side between Bernal Heights and Powhattan Boulevards, Lot 
    029 in Assessor's Block 5625 -- Request for Discretionary Review of Building 
    Permit Application No. 2001/01/24/0487, proposing to remodel the interior 
    space and extend the rear of the building to the minimum rear yard setback 
    in a RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) District and a 40-X Height and 
    Bulk District.


 
Preliminary 
    Recommendation:  Do not take Discretionary Review and approve the project 
    as proposed.




SPEAKER(S):




(-) Brian Dare – DR Requestor




- He owns 
    the property adjacent to the proposed project.




- He apologizes if his DR review application is not as professional 
    and comprehensive as the Commission is accustomed to.




- The architect sent the final plans for this project to him on the 
    very last day of the notification expiration date.  He was given only one 
    business day to review the plans and file a DR.




- He has had to stand in long lines at the Planning Department and 
    at City Hall on the last day trying to express his concerns about this proposal.




- This proposal is a live/work loft that in his view is trendy and 
    ultramodern.




- The entire first floor will be all glass with a triangular protrusion.  
    There is glass from floor to ceiling.




- No one on the block or in the neighborhood has this design.  The 
    design simply is not in keeping with neighborhood character.




- It will stand out and look significantly different than anything 
    else in the neighborhood.




- Anyone driving north on Bernal Heights Boulevard or just walking 
    to the park at the top of the hill will stare at this building.




- At night, it will be fully lit.  He believes that it will be a distraction 
    to drivers on Bernal Heights Boulevard.




- For this reason alone, he feels that the construction should be modified.  
    As for his concerns, he feels that the adjacent homes will feel a loss of 
    privacy.




- He believes that a flat back wall with less glass would be more appropriate.




- The size of the windows should be reduced as well.




(+) Mark Lindsell – Project Architect




- He would 
    like to address the comment made by the previous speaker about the drawings.




- It is true that there were revised drawings issued very late in the 
    process.  The only change that was made was that the neighbor's house was 
    longer than what was shown on the previous drawings.  So the amount of extension 
    of the proposed building was actually less.  The drawing actually showed a 
    smaller impact to the neighbor than was originally shown.




- This neighborhood has a mix of home styles.




- The neighbor has expressed concerns that the new construction will 
    allow people to look into his backyard.  People can look into his backyard 
    right now.




- The neighbor has also expressed concerns about the deck extending 
    too far out.  The deck will not extend that much.




(+) Jerry Lombardi – Project Sponsor




- He took a long time to try to get his neighbors to support 
    his project.  He contacted his neighbors to his side and to the front of his 
    house.




- Mr. Dare does not live in the property next to his house.  He rents 
    it out.




- He contacted the people who live there, showed them the plans several 
    times, and had full support from them.




- He also contacted the people living across the street, whose view 
    will be impacted very slightly when they raise the roof about a foot.




- He also showed the plans to the people living to the north since 
    they would be impacted as well so he revised the plans to consider their issues.




- He received 9 letters in support of his project.




- This project will not be a live/work project.  It will be a single-family 
    house.




- Also, this is not a Victorian neighborhood.  It's a mixed-use neighborhood.




- The project will only stick out 6 inches from his neighbor's house.  
    Since the project will be located to the north so he doesn't believe that 
    his neighbor's house will be impacted in any way.




ACTION:           Do not take DR and approve project as proposed.




AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Lim


 
19.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2001.0454D                                                                                       
    (SIROIS: 558-6313)




769-791 CASTRO STREET
 - east side between Liberty and 21st Streets, 
    Lot 025 in Assessor's Block 3603.  Staff-initiated Discretionary Review of 
    Building Permit Application No. 2001/02/20/2498, proposing to merge two dwelling 
    units into one dwelling unit in a RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) District 
    and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.




Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and disapprove 
    the building permit application




SPEAKER(S):




(+) Alice Barkley – Representing Project Sponsor




-
 These units will be converted back into a family home.  What 
    the Commission is looking at is just eliminating one small unit but providing 
    for a family's needs.




- In the last 5 years, more families have moved into the City.  The 
    problem is that it's difficult for families to move back into the City.




- There will be a family of 5 living in the combined units.




- The housing production in the past has focused on smaller units.  
    There are simply not enough units that are suitable for families.




- In terms of density, when you look at a family of five living in 
    what is going to be basically a three-bedroom unit versus two-single family 
    units, the same number of people, probably more, are going to be living in 
    this building.




(+) Denise Ledbetter




- They have lived in San Francisco for many years.




- They used to live in Noe Valley for many years.




- In 1999 they started the architectural drawings to expand their Noe 
    Valley home.  Because of the housing boom they realized that the expansion 
    would be too expensive.




- They realized that they would have to rent for a few months in order 
    to get their expansion completed.




- They decided to move and purchase the property on Castro Street.  
    This house had originally been a single family home and would be easy to convert 
    back to the way it was.




(+) Joe O'Donaghue – Residential Builders




- These people bought their home before this Commission approved the 
    merger policy.




- This case is about retaining families in this City.




- These people were put into a fix because of our laws and they should 
    not be punished because of these laws.




- For 60 years, this building was a single-family residence.




- Please don't drive families out of this City.




(+/-) Sue Hestor




- A lot of houses in San Francisco don't have central heating.  Space 
    heaters rule in San Francisco because of the climate.




- She has never lived in an apartment that had central heating.




- It's a slippery slope if you start saying that it's impossible to 
    provide code compliant heat without going to something more elaborate.




ACTION:           Do not take DR and approve project as proposed.




AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Salinas, Theoharis




ABSENT:          Lim


5:30 
    P.M.


F.         REGULAR CALENDAR CONTINUED


 
20.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2001.0348I                                                                                     
    (BORDEN: 558-6321)


 
2318 
    FILLMORE STREET - SMITH-KETTLEWELL EYE RESEARCH INSTITUTE ABBREVIATED INSTITUTIONAL 
    MASTER PLAN
 -
 
 Assessor’s 
    Block 612, Lot 19; 2209 Webster Street, Assessor’s Block 612, Lot 7; 2232 
    Webster Street, Assessor’s Block 613, Lot 28; 2238 Webster Street, Assessor’s 
    Block 613, Lot 15; 2244 Webster Street, Assessor’s Block 613, Lot 16; 2250-2252 
    Webster Street, Assessor’s Block 613, Lot 17; 2389 Washington Street, Assessor’s 
    Block 613, Lot 18; and 2472 Clay Street, Assessor’s Block 612, Lot 17 -- The 
    Planning Department received an Abbreviated Institutional Master Plan (Abbreviated 
    IMP) for the Smith-Kettlewell Eye Research Institute (SKERI) on January 5, 
    2001.  This Abbreviated IMP applies to SKERI’S properties, located in the 
    Fillmore Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD), the RM-2 (Mixed Residential, 
    Moderate Density) District, and the RH-2 (House, Two-Family) District and 
    the 160-F and 40-X Height and Bulk Districts.  All of the properties, except 
    2318 Fillmore, 2232 Webster, and 2472 Clay are in the Webster Street Historic 
    District.  Per the requirements of Planning Code Section 304.5, this filing 
    was reported to the members of the Planning Commission at the April 5, 2001 
    hearing.  At that hearing, the Commission directed staff to schedule a hearing 
    for the receipt of public testimony on the Abbreviated IMP for May 17, 2001, 
    due to expressed public interest. 


Preliminary Recommendation: 
    No action is required of the Commission. However, the Commission may request 
    additional information of the Institute.




SPEAKER(S):




(-) Judy Langley




-
 Saving Webster 
    Street is very important.




- There are many people here to speak on this issue yet a few had to 
    leave because of the late hour of this hearing. 




- San Francisco Historical Heritage is also here.




- Before Smith-Kettlewell moved into the neighborhood, the houses were 
    typical Victorian houses.




- They have slowly moved into the neighborhood and have converted many 
    of these Victorian houses into large institutional buildings.




- Building maintenance became deteriorated.  They then went to the 
    Landmarks Advisory Board and requested that these houses be restored, which 
    some were.




- Many of the houses and their buildings have large and noisy air-conditioning 
    equipment that are on 24 hours a day.  This noisy equipment disrupts the rest 
    of the neighbors.




- In previous reports, Smith-Kettlewell stated that they had no plans 
    of expansion.  Since then, they have taken over about 6 Victorian houses.




- This abbreviated master plan is not very accurate.




- Why do they buy these houses in the first place?  What is the real 
    reason for retaining ownership of these houses?  At one point, Smith-Kettlewell 
    stated that they needed these houses for housing for students and as short-term 
    housing for visiting professors.




- Is Smith-Kettlewell done expanding?




- The Institute recently wrote that they want amicable relations with 
    the neighbors.  A week ago they invited the neighbors to an open house.




- When the neighbors ask to work with them, the Institute ignores them.




- We don't want to be here ten years from now asking for the houses 
    to be restored.




- We don't want to continue to pay heavy legal fees to continue fighting 
    the Institute.




- Real families should inhabit these houses.




- It's time to stop this fighting.




(-) Ian Berke – Pacific Heights Residents Association




- His association is totally opposed of this Abbreviated Master Plan.  
    It's not even abbreviated anyway.




- Smith-Kettlewell has a history of ignoring the Commission's desires.




- The Institute argues that they can't expand--but they can buy as 
    they please?




- An institution of 80 employees requires so much space and is unaware 
    of the requirements?




(-) Heidi Engelbrechten – Friends of Webster Street




- She lives in one of the buildings in the Webster Street Historic 
    District.




- The Smith Kettlewell Master Plan describes four of its Victorian 
    houses.  One is currently used for residential purposes and three are currently 
    vacant and will be used for residential purposes in the future, housing staff 
    lecturers, fellows, doctors and others as needed.




- It's sad that in San Francisco, a Victorian is not on the housing 
    market.




- How can we be sure that once this hearing is over, they won't once 
    again have illegal guesthouses?




- Will Smith-Kettlewell provide its own interpretation and who is going 
    to monitor the proper residential use?




- Whether left empty or used for visitors, these houses don't contribute 
    to a neighborhood ambiance and that's what they want to restore.




- They want real residents in these houses who contribute to the neighborly 
    interaction of our community.




- They realized how much Smith-Kettlewell has intruded after they had 
    a block party.




(-) Nelson Wild – Friends of Webster Street and Webster 
    Street Historic District




- He has lived on Webster Street since 1972.




- He referred to the interpretation of the Planning Commission Resolution 
    adopted in 1996 that has to do with no north expansion.




- What does it matter that the institute buy, lease or rent--it is 
    still a violation of this resolution.




- We submit that the use of this for 30 years or more is a violation.




(-) Bill Eddelman – Friends of Webster Street




- He has lived in the neighborhood for many years.




- He read a letter from a neighbor who could not attend and is opposed 
    to the project.




(-) Mike Farrah – Office of Supervisor Newsom




- Supervisor 
    Newsom could not be here tonight because of a previous engagement.




- He has worked with the supervisor for many years.




- The supervisor feels that the Abbreviated Master Plan is inadequate.




(-) Peggy Garlinghouse – Friends of Webster Street




- She believes that this neighborhood is a wonderful neighborhood for 
    families.




- She believes that the Commission would want to approve a neighborhood 
    that welcomes families.




(-) Mike Hamond – President of the Victorian Alliance




- He is here to support the Friends of Webster Street Historic District 
    in keeping these homes for families.




- He would also like to know what plans Smith-Kettlewell has for maintaining 
    these homes and what specific information is planned for use of these homes 
    if they become part of the master plan.




(-) Beverly McCallister – Friends of Webster Street




- She is a member of the Friends of Webster Street 




- She lives adjacent to the Webster Street Historic District and she 
    is a member of the Pacific Heights Residence Board of Directors.




- She was surprised by the remarks made by Smith-Kettlewell's legal 
    representative that the Friends of Webster Street Historic District members 
    were engaged in Institute bashing.




- She is happy by the positive contribution made by researches of Smith-Kettlewell.  
    She knows how hard researchers must work.




- She remembers that at the Planning Commission hearing in 1966, the 
    Smith-Kettlewell representative was asked if they planned further expansion 
    on the subject block and the answer was no.




- She believes that moving researchers into homes that are designed 
    for residential use is not right.              - 




(-) Susan DuCote – Webster Street Historical Alliance




- She lives on Washington Street.  Her office and bedroom look 
    over her yard, which is bordered with the back part of the Smith-Kettlewell 
    Institute.




- A hospital 
    related entity moved into a residential neighborhood and now they want to 
    say their master plan should be extended?




- Personally, she has her suspicions of why they bought the other buildings.




- The Institute just finished a two-year construction project that 
    was just incredibly invasive.  The Institute never returns phone calls and 
    wouldn't tell her whom to talk to regarding the construction problems until 
    she called the Board of Supervisors.




- She hopes that the Commission will keep the Institute from encroaching 
    in the neighborhood because it's difficult enough as it is.




(-) Howard Schindler – Friends of Webster Street




- He has lived 
    all his life in San Francisco and previously lived in this neighborhood for 
    eight years.




- His business partner has been living and renting in the neighborhood 
    for five years and loves the neighborhood.




- He recently married and has two children.  He saw an opportunity 
    to purchase a Victorian home directly across from Smith-Kettlewell.  He loves 
    the neighborhood and the urban feel.  He knew that Smith-Kettlwell was there.




- But he was shocked and never dreamed that the Victorians would possibly 
    be torn down or used for institutional purposes.




- He would like for the Commission to have these Victorian homes remain 
    vibrant and used for their intended use--single-family homes.




(-) Mark Zier – Friends of Webster Street




- He lives 
    on Washington Street.




- The Smith-Kettlewell representatives have spoken about the Institute's 
    longevity in the neighborhood.




- The Abbreviated Master Plan states that the Institute was formed 
    in 1959 yet their literature states that they were formed in 1963.




- The fact that the Institute has been there a very long time, does 
    not give them any special rights.




- The minutes of a Planning Commission hearing in 1966 stated that 
    the neighbors were opposed to the Institute coming into the neighborhood.




- In some cases, the Institute bought the homes as owners passed away.




- She believes that the Institute is just anxiously waiting for more 
    homeowners to pass away so that they can purchase more Victorians.




- Newcomers to the neighborhood think that they are buying a home in 
    a residential neighborhood instead of a medical campus.




(-) Josh Thieriot 




- 
He is 29 years old and he has lived in the neighborhood for 
    27 of those years.




- He has many fond memories of playing football in the streets when 
    traffic permitted, doorbell ditching and trick or treating with his neighbors.




- He asks the Commission for help in preserving the neighborhood.




(-) William Campbell – Victorian Alliance




 
- He desires that the Commission return the six Victorians back to private 
    ownership and residential.


 


(-) Linda Kiouda – PHRA




- She belongs to various neighborhood groups and has lived for 17 years 
    in a restored Victorian.




- Smith-Kettlewell tells everyone that they have no plans for expansion 
    so their distrust has been a factor for 35 years.




- So she apologizes for not believing in what the Institute has been 
    saying.




- It is true, of course, that an institution will outlive all of us, 
    so it's very important that the Planning Commission restate and reaffirm in 
    unmistakable terms that no medical or hospital related facility of any sort 
    be allowed beyond the boundaries of the existing master plan on Webster, Washington, 
    Buchanan, Clay or Fillmore Streets.




(-) Joe Dews – Friends of Webster Street




- 
He lives on Washington Street.




- His house is directly adjacent to the Victorians being discussed 
    as well as the concrete building with the lab space for Smith-Kettlewell.




- When he bought his house he knew he had a hospital behind the house.  
    He didn't realize he was sort of encircled.




- He is very disturbed by the noise from the roof units and the light 
    from the buildings.




- He received a notice of an appeal to a Planning commission ruling 
    that caused him to think that there was an attempt to change zoning or permits 
    related to the adjacent properties.




- He would like for Smith-Kettlewell to sell the houses to individuals 
    so that families can come live in them.




- If the Institute needs to provide short-term housing for affiliated 
    parties, they should do that with appropriate housing in an appropriately 
    zoned location.




(-) Sarah Morse




- She lives on Clay Street.




- She believes that if the Board of Supervisors did pass a resolution 
    last August, which she heard they did, that the eye Institute restore the 
    buildings to proper residential use, that they comply with it.  Proper residential 
    use means you live there and you sleep there.




(-) Margot Parke – PHRA




- She is on the board of directors of the Pacific Heights Resident's 
    Association.




- She believes that the Abbreviated Institutional Master Plan be rejected 
    because it is uninformative.




- She would like the Commission to further reject any plans that would 
    defacto extend an institution halfway through the Webster Street Historic 
    District.




- She hopes that the Commission goes further than just make a decision 
    about how much information you need from Smith-Kettlewell.








(-) Courtney Clarkson




- 
She is a member of the Pacific Heights Resident's Association.




- Over the past several years, when she sits around and listens to 
    cases at Commission hearings, she concludes that we have a housing crisis 
    and a housing shortage.




- Allowing these uses to continue sets a very bad precedent because 
    if Smith-Kettlewell can get away with this, then why can't other institutions.




- She hopes that the Commission does not approve this Abbreviated Master 
    Plan.




(-) John Barbey




- He is president of the Liberty Hill Association and this is sort 
    of like a worst nightmare for someone in a historic district.




- It is fairly evident what this institution is attempting to do.




- They are slowly purchasing each of the residential units as they 
    come on the market with probably the precise intention of overturning the 
    historic district if they finally obtain a majority.




- He is stunned that they have actually got 20% of this district now.




- He has a very short fuse about conversion of residential to commercial.




- A hotel is not a house and an office is not a house.




- He finds it outrageous that this so-called Master Plan is just a 
    vague two-page narrative about nothing.  




(-) Don Langley




- Last year 
    the Institute declared itself a separate entity from the California Pacific 
    Medical Center.




- Robert Passmore is so closely following this case that the Planning 
    Department routinely copies him on its letters 




(+) John Sanger




- Unfortunately 
    some aspects of history simply can't be reversed and that's the situation 
    being faced.




- There is a great deal of disharmony and distrust.  Now the challenge 
    is to try to get a harmonious future.




- The Institutional Master Plan is perhaps not a terrible framework 
    within which to work.




- Personally, as a lawyer, he believes there is no question that it 
    satisfies the strict requirements of Section 304.5.  But he is not here to 
    do legal battle.




- If the Commissioners require more information, he is more than happy 
    to provide it.




- The Institute is committed to not seeking any future Conditional 
    Use authorizations.  It will only use its property as permitted.  It intends 
    to seek no approvals.




ACTION:           Informational Presentation Only.  No Action Required.


G.


PUBLIC COMMENT


At this time, members 
    of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public 
    that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda 
    items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission 
    will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception. 
     When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which 
    members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed 
    the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised 
    during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.  Each member of the public 
    may address the Commission for up to three minutes. 


The Brown Act forbids 
    a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the 
    posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.  In response 
    to public comment, the commission is limited to: 


(1) Responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the 
    public; or


(2) Requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; 
    or 


(3) Directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.  (Government 
    Code Section 54954.2(a))


Joe O'Donaghue


- He was watching a Board of Supervisors hearing and to be honest he 
    found the demeanor and the conclusions of Supervisor McGoldrick troubling 
    as he tried to defame this Commission.  He was also very negative about the 
    Director.


- He felt that the Director was too nice in response to these comments.


- Supervisor McGoldrick needs to understand and learn from the history 
    of past engagements, that if you're going to bring a Director, no matter what 
    department, before the Board, that you at least let him know in advance what 
    the line of questioning is going to be.


Adjournment:  9:06 p.m.


THE DRAFT MINUTES WERE PROPOSED FOR ADOPTION AT THE REGULAR 
    MEETING OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 2001.


 
SPEAKERS:
 
None


 
ACTION:


Approved


 
AYES:
 


Baltimore, Chinchilla, 
    Fay, Joe, Salinas, and Theoharis


 
ABSENT:


Lim












Last updated: 11/17/2009 10:00:12 PM
<<Project End>>
