<<Project Start>>














San Francisco Planning Commission Minutes, May 2000






Minutes of Planning 
    Commission Calendars




May 2000








Presented below are Minutes of the Planning 
    Commission. The top of the this page lists Commission meeting dates for the 
    month. 
Click on the date and you will reach the minutes for that that 
    week. The minutes present a summary of actions taken at the Planning Commission 
    hearing and provides a Motion or Resolution number for that action.


With most browsers you will be able to search for any text item 
    by using the Ctrl-F keys. It is recommended you search by case number and 
    suffix, if you know it, as that will always be a unique item. You may search 
    by any identifying phrase, including project addresses. 


(Please note, commission minutes generally are approved and 
    finalized two weeks following the hearing date.) 






HTML


PDF ( 
, 
        see 
help
 file for questions.) 
        






May 4, 2000


 






May 11, 2000


 






May 18, 2000


May 18, 2000
 






May 25, 2000
 


May 25, 2000
 










 








SAN 
  FRANCISCO


PLANNING
 COMMISSION





 Meeting Minutes




Commission
 Chamber - Room 400


City
 Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place


Thursday,
 May 4, 2000


1:30
 PM




Regular
 Meeting




PRESENT:
         Theoharis, Antenore,
 Chinchilla, Joe, Richardson


ABSENT:
  Mills, Martin




THE
 MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT THEOHARIS AT 1:35 P.M.




STAFF
 IN ATTENDANCE: Gerald G. Green - Director of Planning, Larry Badiner
 - Zoning Administrator, Ellen Miramontes, Kenneth Chin, Amit Gosh,
 Tony Kim, Dario Jones, Sailesh Mehra, Steve Shotland, Linda D. Avery
 - Commission Secretary.




A.
 
ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






1. 
    2000.006C (KEYLON: 558-6613)


 
    3445 GEARY BOULEVARD
, south east corner at Stanyan Street, Lot 41 in Assessor’s 
    Block 1085 -- Request for Conditional Use Authorization under Planning Code 
    Sections 121.2 and 712.21 for use size exceeding 6,000 square feet within 
    an NC-3 (Moderate Scale Neighborhood Commercial) District and 40-X Height 
    and Bulk District. The proposal is for a ground floor retail store (Beverages 
    and More of 11,989 gross square feet.


 Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Disapproval.


 (Continued 
    from Regular Meeting of April 13, 2000)


 
(Proposed 
    for Continuance to May 18, 2000)










SPEAKER(S): 
    
None


 ACTION: 
    
Continued as Proposed


 AYES: 
    
Theoharis, Antenore, Chinchilla, Joe, Richardson


 ABSENT: 
    
Mills, Martin








2a. 
    99.583X                           (WILSON: 
    558-6602)


 
    881-899 HOWARD STREET
, southeast corner of Howard and Fifth Streets, with 
    secondary frontage on Tehama Street, Lot 79 in Assessor’s Block 3733 
    --Request under Planning Code Section 309 (Downtown Code) for Determinations 
    of Compliance and Exceptions, including an exception to the Freight Loading 
    Space requirement (Section 161(i)) to allow the conversion of approximately 
    152,000 square feet of space in the existing building to office use. 
The 
    project also includes consolidation existing tenants at the site (approximately 
    92,400 square feet of retail and 13,400 square feet of office), and provision 
    of approximately 45 parking spaces. The project lies within a C-3-S (Downtown 
    Support) District and the 130-F Height and Bulk District.


 
    Recommendation: Approval with Conditions


 
    (Proposed for Continuance to May 18, 2000)










SPEAKER(S): 
    
None


 
    ACTION: 
Continued as Proposed


 
    AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Chinchilla, Joe, Richardson


 
    ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin








2b. 
    99.583B                     (WILSON: 
    558-6602)






















881-899 
    HOWARD STREET
, 
    southeast corner of Howard and Fifth Streets, with secondary frontage on Tehama 
    Street, Lot 79 in Assessor’s Block 3733 --Request under Planning Code 
    Section 320-322 (Office Development Limitation Program) to allow the conversion 
    of approximately 152,000 square feet of space in the existing building to 
    office use. The project also includes consolidation existing tenants at the 
    site (approximately 92,400 square feet of retail and 13,400 square feet of 
    office), and provision of approximately 45 parking spaces. The project lies 
    within a C-3-S (Downtown Support) District and the 130-F Height and Bulk District.


 
    Recommendation: Approval with Conditions




(Proposed for Continuance to May 18, 2000)












SPEAKER(S): 
    
None


 
    ACTION: 
Continued as Proposed


 
    AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Chinchilla, Joe, Richardson


 
    ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin






B.
 
PUBLIC COMMENT




At
 this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items
 of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction
 of the Commission except agenda items.  With respect to agenda items,
 your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when
 the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.  When the
 agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which
 members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission
 has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission
 must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.
  Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three
 minutes.  If it is demonstrated that comments by the public will
 exceed 15 minutes, the President or chairperson may continue Public
 Comment to another time during the meeting.






“The
 Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any
 item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised
 at public comment.  In response to public comment, the commission
 is limited to: 




(1)
  responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the
 public; or




(2)
  requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting;
 or 




(3)
  directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.  (Government
 Code Section 54954.2(a))










SPEAKER(S): 
          
Alice Barkley: 
 
          360-362 10th Street - a question arose on April 27, 200 regarding the 
          the applicability of the resolution of the commission regarding affordable 
          housing. Ms. Barkley handed out information regarding this.




















Paul Kawakami
 
of Cassidy, Shimko and Dawson:





 Item 7 - 2844-2846 Greenwich Street - There was a fax that was sent
 to the commissioners about his firm being retained to represent Mr.
 Somaya.   The Commission had no jurisdiction to take DR in this matter
 because the 30 day period described in Section 311 had expired by
 at least 60 days at the time the DR request was filed.  Mr. Somaya
 had a reasonable belief that his project would no longer be subject
 to DR, yet the Commission granted DR.  At the April 13, 2000 meeting,
 there was a finding of intent to make a dicision. Mr. Kowakami believes
 that this is a legal issue that should be taken up by the City Attorney
’s
 Office.  Mr. Somaya would like to get along with his neighbors and
 would be willing to drop the penthouse structure and just continue
 with the roof.






Ketu Somaya - Owner of property at 2844 Greenwich Street:





 Apologized to the Commission.  At the previous hearing he wasn
’t
 able to express his comments completely.  There was no work that
 was done without the Planning Department
’s
 knowledge or approval.  He has had damage to his home because of
 his mistakes.  The penthouse wasn
’t
 shown on the front side of the drawing.  The architect submitted
 the drawing which didn
’t
 show the penthouse.  He is willing to pay for his mistakes and not
 continue with the proposed penthouse work.






Steve Williams:




Represents
 concerns of neighbors of a proposed hotel located at 2361 Lombard
 Street, which was heard on March 2, 2000.  The project was presented
 as a conditional use authorization as compatible and desirable to
 the neighbrohood.   The Commision passed a vote of +4 -3.  The lead
 planner on the case had come to the opposite conclusion that was
 given to the Commision at the time of the hearing and that information
 was not given to the Commissioners.   The lead planner recommended
 denial based on inappropriate scale for the district.  The planner
 and the neighbors were in agreement.  What other information is being
 withheld to the commissioners?  Many times the Commission sides with
 the department.






Patricia Vaughey:





 The Commission and Bureau of Building Inspection believes that the
 commissions of these departments should charge for people who are
 continually causing problems.






C. 
  
COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




3. 
    Consideration of Adoption - draft minutes of 2/10/00 and 3/2/00.






ACTION: 
    
Approved






AYES: 
    
Theoharis, Antenore, Chinchilla, Joe, Richardson






ABSENT:
 
    Mills, Martin
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






4.
 Commission Matters










 
      Commissioner Theoharis:












 1) Certain 
        timely information is being sent after the fact. Sometimes this particular 
        mail is being sent bulk rate and this takes longer so it should be sent 
        well in advance.


 








2) 
      When she gets briefs from lawyers, she finds them on Thursday mornings. 
      It would be very difficult for her to review this information on the same 
      day of the hearings. Get materials in on a timely matter. 














Commissioner 
        Antenore:


 




Agrees 
      with Ms. Theoharis
’s 
      sentiments. Even briefs that are received on Mondays - it still is quite 
      difficult to review before hearing date. Although there are exceptions, 
      last minute items are hard to review.








D. 
  
DIRECTOR’S REPORT
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




5.
 Director
’s
 Announcements.










Gerald Green:


1) This morning 
        he attended the Mayor
’s 
        summit on housing and homelessness called Campaign 2000. Items talked 
        about were: housing, affordable housing, and homeless issues. Almost every 
        speaker talked about planning issues and the planning process as well 
        as land use. There were possitive comments regarding the department. There 
        was a strong recognition about the limited land use and talked about higher 
        densities (i.e. taller and larger buildings). There was a strong desire 
        to get better architecture. Mr. Green will continue to be part of this 
        process. 












2) 
      The program of Better Neighborhoods 2002 kicked off this week. There were 
      many meetings at different neighborhoods: Market/Octavia; Waterfront; Balboa. 
      They used bulk mail to send out the information. The shortcomings of bulk 
      mail is that the post office decides when to send it out. The department 
      is learning from this experience and will send out information in advance 
      to give people a good turnaround. The department is improving the process 
      and making sure that we get public imput.










3) 
      Would like to announce that Mr. Larry Badiner has become Zoning Administrator. 
      There are 2 vacancies at the senior level; therefore there will be many 
      adjustments to be done within the department.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>










6. 
    Review of Past Week
’s 
    Events at the Board of Supervisors & Board of Appeals.














BOS: 
1) 2361 Lombard Street - continued for 2 weeks.










2)
 There was a conditional use that was granted with susbstantial conditions
 for SF Asia (entertainment permit where one part was approved and
 the other was not approved). This will be before the Board on Monday.











 BOA: 
1)  3852 19th Street - demolition - A permit was issued
 during 15 day appeal period, demolition was conducted illegally.
  A stop work order has been issued on the project, although the buidling
 is completely down.  Mr. Badiner did review the appeal file.  It’s
 on calendar for May 24, 2000.





   2)  236-238 Burns Street - Mr. Badiner requested a re-hearing but
 it was denied.  Even if neighbors did not receive the 311 notice,
 the board did not  agree to re-hear the case.  Mr. Badiner has taken
 steps in the 311 process to make sure that our records are much clearer
 in the future.






E. 
  
CONSIDERATION OF FINDINGS AND FINAL ACTION - PUBLIC HEARING CLOSED
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






7. 
    2000.261D          (CHIN: 575-6897)






2844-46 
    GREENWICH STREET
, north side between Baker and Lyon Streets, Lot 033 in 
    Assessor’s Block 0940 -- Request for Discretionary Review of BPA No. 
    9919535, proposing to raise the flat roof in the rear half of the building 
    to match the existing level at the front, and construct a roof deck over the 
    entire roof area, with access via a stair and elevator penthouse in a RH-2 
    (Residential, House, Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.






(Continued 
    from Regular Meeting of April 13, 2000)








Note: On April 13, 2000, following public testimony, the Commission closed 
    the public hearing and passed a motion of intent to take Discretionary Review 
    and disapprove by a vote of+4 -1. Commissioner Richardson voted no. Commissioners 
    Chinchilla and Martin were absent. Final language 5/4/00.







 SPEAKER(S): 
None





 ACTION: 
Take DR and Disapprove Project





 AYES:  
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Chinchilla





 NAYES: 
Richardson





 ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






8.
 1999.578C         (LeBLANC:
 558-6351) 






 615 HYDE STREET
, northwest corner at Geary Street; Lot 008
 in Assessor's Block 0302 -- Request for Conditional Use authorization
 to install a wireless telecommunications facility in an RC-4 (Residential-Commercial
 Combined) District, the North of Market Residential Special Use District
 (Sub-Area #2) and an 80-T Height and Bulk District. The proposed
 project is the installation of two panel antennas, one on each street
 frontage, flush mounted to the roof parapet approximately 55 feet
 above ground level, and base station equipment in the basement of
 the building as part of a wireless transmission network operated
 by Sprint Spectrum.





  Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions.





 (Continued from Regular Meeting of April 6, 2000).






Note: On April 6, 2000, following public testimony the Commission
 closed the public hearing.   A motion to approve with the condition
 that this site can not be used as a co-location site  failed to carry
 by a vote of +3 -2.  Commissioners Antenore and Richardson voted
 no.  Commissioners Chinchilla and Theoharis were absent.  Substitute
 motion to disapprove also failed to carry by a vote +2 -3.  Commissioners
 Joe, Martin and Mills voted no.  Commissioners Chinchilla and Theoharis
 were absent.  The item was continued to April 13, 2000.
 





 (Continued from Regular Meeting of April 13, 2000)







 SPEAKER(S): 
None





 ACTION: 
Approved - Case will be continued on May 11, 2000





 AYES: 
Theoharis, Joe, Chinchilla





 NAYES: 
Antenore, Richardson














 
    1999.437D                             (BANALES: 
    558-6339)
 






250 
    CLARA STREET
, northwest side between 5th and 6th Streets, Lot 206 (formerly 
    Lot 066) in Assessor’s Block 3753 -- A Staff-initiated Discretionary 
    Review of BPA No. 9907464S, proposing to demolish existing auto services structures 
    and construct 16 live/work units in a RSD (Residential/Service Mixed Use District) 
    a Mixed Use Buffer zone, and a 40-X/85B Height and Bulk District.


Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve building permit 
    application as submitted.
















 
    (Continued from Regular Meeting of March 9, 2000).


















Note: 
    On April 13, 2000, following public testimony the Commission closed the public 
    hearing. A motion to approve with staff findings failed to carry by a vote 
    of +3 -2. Commissioners Joe and Antenore voted no. Commissioners Chinchilla 
    and Martin were absent.






SPEAKER(S):
 
None




ACTION:
 
Approved - Case continued to May 11, 2000




AYES:
 
Theoharis, Chinchilla, Richardson




NAYES:
 
Antenore, Joe




ABSETN:
 
Mills, Martin






F. 
  
REGULAR CALENDAR
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






9. 
    2000.026M                         (SHOTLAND: 
    558-6308)






CONSIDERATION 
    OF A RESOLUTION OF INTENT TO INITIATE AN AMENDMENT TO THE RECREATION AND OPEN 
    SPACE ELEMENT OF THE GENERAL PLAN.
 Pursuant to Planning Code 340, consideration 
    of a Resolution of Intent to Initiate an amendment to Map 4 of the Recreation 
    and Open Space Element of the General Plan to designate the following sites 
    as “Proposed Public Open Space. Acquire for or Convert to Public Open 
    Space”:






 
    a. Brooks Park Extension






 
    AB 7075, lots 30, 31










 
236-238 
      Vernon Street


 




 
    b. North Mission Park site






 
    AB 3569, lot 19


 
    45 Hoff Street












SPEAKER(S): 
      




(+) Mark Solomon


 
      - He didn
’t 
      know that this case would be on the agenda.


 
      - He lives about 1 block away from project site.


 
      - Would like to have more green in his neighborhood.












 - Would 
            like the police to monitor this park so it doesn
’t 
            become a place for people to use drugs and kept as a park for children 
            to play.


 












ACTION: 
      
Approved to initiate an amendment of the Park and Recreation open space 
      element of the General Plan to designate these two sites as proposed open 
      space.


AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Chinchilla, Richardson


ABSENT: 
      
Mills, Martin


RESOLUTION 
      NO. 
15042
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>














10. 
      98.635ECBD               (BADINER: 
      558-6350)




2101 -2125 
        BRYANT STREET, 700 YORK STREET, 2830 20TH STREET, 2717 19TH STREET, also 
        known as the BRYANT SQUARE PROJECT
, Assessor's Block 4080 (Lots 7, 
        11, 12, and 14), bounded by Bryant, 19th, York and 20th Streets -- Consideration 
        of:


 






 
      (1) Conditional Use Authorization under Section 303 for (a) demolition of 
      two Industrial Buildings at 2125 Bryant Street and 2850 York Street under 
      the interim zoning controls for the Industrial Protection Zone; (b) a Planned 
      Unit Development, under Section 304, including authorization to provide 
      required parking on a valet assisted basis, rather than independently accessible 
      spaces; and (c) an exception, under Section 271, from the bulk limitations.


 
      Recommendation: Approval With Conditions; and 




MOTION NO. 
        15043


(2) Project 
        Authorization under Section 321 for the net addition of 148,000 square 
        feet of office space. Recommendation: Approval With Conditions
. 
        




MOTION 
      NO. 15044
















(3) 
      Discretionary Review of the demolition of a vacant industrial building at 
      700 York Street under the provisions of Planning Commission Motion No. 14861. 
      Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Conditions










MOTION 
      NO. 15045










This 
      project lies within an M-1 (Light Industrial) and a C-M (Heavy Commercial) 
      District and within a 65-B Height and Bulk District.










The 
      Project would include a total of approximately 159,015 square feet, including 
      approximately 152,840 square feet of office space, approximately 1,500 square 
      feet of retail space, and approximately 4,700 square feet of light industrial 
      space in two new buildings (2125 Bryant Street and 700 York Street) and 
      three renovated buildings (2101 Bryant Street, 2717 19th Street, and 2830 
      20th Street) on the site.


















(Continued 
      from Regular Meeting of April 27, 2000)














SPEAKER(S) IN 
        SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT:


(+) Robert 
        McCarthy - McCarthy and Szwartz








 
      - Handed out to Commissioners 23 letters of support from neighbors and other 
      organizations including non-profits.






 
      (+) Daniel Kinsgley - SKS




 
        - They bought Bryant Square over 2 years ago. They thought it would be 
        a unique opportunity to create a mixed use project that would address 
        many of the issues of San Francisco.


 
        - Would incorporate public benefits into this project that would demonstrate 
        that smart growth is acceptable than no growth.


 
        - There are many benefits to the construction and facilities which will 
        be provided with the construction of Bryant Square project.




 
      - The current construction is not in great shape.


 
      - Will provide jobs for San Franciscans.




 
        - SKS is very proud of Bryant Square and would like to commend the planning 
        department for all their hard work.




 
      (+) Peter Fowe - Fowe Architecture


 
      - A mixed use project would be a good solution.


 
      - The design has preserved the brick facade.


 
      - The facade of that street is designed to meet the neighborhood
’s 
      design.




 
        - Interior courtyard has a European character where people can go and 
        eat their lunch, enjoy the nice Mission District weather, etc.




 
      (+) Robert McCarthy:


 
      - Has been personally responsible for the approval of more square feet.


 
      - It is not open at night by the request of the neighbrs.


 
      - The project will give opportunities for non-profits to pay below market 
      rent.


(neutral) 
      Norman Maslov


 
      - He lives on Florida Street and works near Bryant Street




 
        - He supports the outdoor space


 
        - He is opposed of the massive density of the project. There will be 5 
        floors and he believes this is too high.




 
      (neutral) Ellen Gavin - Director of Brava Women For the Arts


 
      - Is midway in the renovation of the York Street Theatre and will open in 
      October.




 
        - Many low income families have had to leave the Mission District. There 
        has been an out of control growth in this area. Many people don
’t 
        have the means to come and testify at these meetings.




 
      - Has lived and worked in the Mission District for many years.


 
      (neutral) Carlos Romero - Mission Housing Development


 
      - Board of Directors have met with SKS and have a neutral comment.


 
      (+) Jim Gonzalez - Executive Director of the Information Technology Coalition


 
      - His organization represents the dot com communities.










 
          - This is a historical project where the community, artists and technology 
          can work together.










 
      - The commission is not the gentrification police.


 
      - The commission is not the housing cost police.




 
        - Would like to see high school students have a place to come together 
        and learn and get opportunities.




(+) 
      Marie Acosta Ponce - Arriba Juntos


 
      - She is a resident of the Mission District for 17 years.


 
      - When the earthquake hit and the resession hit, the neighborhood changed.




 
        - The two daily newspapers ran sensationalized stories about crime, drugs, 
        prostitution, gang warfare in this community.


 
        - Except for the Mission
’s 
        community based organization and Latino community leaders, nobody cares 
        about the Mission District.


 
        - The project is a model of planning and cooperation and what we can accomplish 
        together to influence the economic vitality that the Mission District 
        needs.




 
      (+) West Schell CEO and Chairman of Netsentives




 
        - would like San Francisco to support technology companies; therefore 
        not force them to move out of the city.




 
      - Believes that SKS is a world-class organization.




 
        - When they signed their lease there were 90 people and have grown to 
        an incredible amount that he now occupies 4 office locations and is still 
        looking for more space.




 
      - These are the kind of projects that San Francisco needs.


 
      - San Francisco needs these types of companies.


 
      - The new digital economy is growing considerably.


 
      (+) Marlon Mendieta - Arriba Juntos (part of the Digital Mission Colaborative)


 
      - There are a lot of jobs and companies moving into the Mission District.


 
      - He trains about 200 to 300 people per year in computer training.


 
      - For 35 years they have been training people and placing them in jobs.


 
      - SKS is doing a great service to them.


 
      (+) Gwen Kaplan - Ace Mailing


 
      - She is an owner of a business on 16th Street


 
      - She is a commissioner on the small business commission.


 
      - She has had a lot of interest in this area.




 
        - One of the main problems in the Mission District is employment. Where 
        are they going to have their children work.




 
      - Residents of the district should take opportunity that this project will 
      offer.


 
      (+) Mauricio Aviles - Arriba Juntos


 
      - The Mission District has seen many jobs leave the area.


 
      - Has lived in the Mission District since 1957.




 
        - Arriba Juntos, for the last 35 years, has been an economic development 
        agency. It is the responsibility of Arriba Juntos to support this economic 
        venture in the Mission District.




(+) 
      Rosario Anaya
 -
 Mission Language and Vocation Center




 
        - They appreciate that the dot com companies have incorporated Mr. Gonzalez 
        into their plans. Mr. Gongazelz is fully aware of the needs of the community.




 
      - She believes that this project is 3 years too late.


 
      - Supports the Bryant Square project.


 
      (+) James Lee - He owns property in front of the proposed structure


 
      - He favors this project.




 
        - The current building would be demolished anyway since it
’s 
        a building that needed to be brought to current standards.


 
        - The parking situation in San Francsico is a problem everywhere. The 
        current project will provide 250 parking spaces.


 
        - The project will provide larger sidewalks, open space, planting trees, 
        PG&E power lines will be placed underground, .etc.




 
      (+) Lourdes Portillo - Xochitl Films and long time tenant of Bryant Square


 
      - SKS has been willing to work with the tenants and provide to their needs.




 
        - Everyday, Mission District residents are being evicted so she believes 
        that SKS
’ 
        s goodwill on providing funds to affordable housing should be supported.




 
      - Thanks SKS to remain in her community - the Mission District.


 
      (+) Sally Woefell - Director of Art House


 
      - The current citywide displacement of artists is an alarming situation.


 
      - San Francisco artists are an endangered population.


 
      - Supervisors Yaki and Katz commended SKS on their projects.


 
      - They would like to see more projects geared to artists and new technologies.




 
        (+) Charlie Baxter - Chief Executive of E-Translate (an internet based 
        translation company) based in the Mission District.




 
      - They are a multicultural, diverse people.




 
        - About 25% of staff, bike to work because they live in the Mission District 
        and would like to stay in the Mission District.




 
      - Supports the project completely.


 
      (+) Fred Snyder - David Allen Trust and property owner near the project.


 
      - He lived in the neighborhood for over 25 years.


 
      - The district has gone from an abandoned area to one of great economic 
      vitality.




 
        - As a neighbor he is really pleased to see people wanting to get involved 
        and solve their problems.


 
        - He commends SKS for taking an interest and come into development of 
        the District.


 
        - In 1990, there was a commission by the planning department to do some 
        work in the neighborhood. They put together a plan for the neighborhood 
        which created an IP zone which has been expanded going against the neighborhood 
        from what they wanted. The IP Zone would be created from 16th Street back 
        towards 13th Street. From 16th Street backwards it would be multimedia 
        and artists
’ 
        live/work. This project is following what the neighborhood wanted.


 
        - SKS has become involved in the community like parking alternatives, 
        transportation issues, etc. 




 
      (+) Jim Chappell - President of SPUR


 
      - They usually don
’t 
      take a stand on individual buildigns.


 
      - He is a 15 year resident of the Mission District.


 
      - There are shortages of places to work in the City. Rents are incredibly 
      expensive.




 
        - Just came from the Mayor
’s 
        Campaign 2000 and in summary we need many projects on affordable housing.




 
      - Non-profit companies are terribly being squeazed out.




 
        - From the citywide perspective, they must add to their supply of living 
        and working space.




 
      - Mixed use projects 


 
      - Don
’t 
      say no to development.




 
        (+) Marty Schneckenber - Creative Express (an advertising business located 
        at 720 York Street).




 
      - The Bryant Square project replaces a delapidated building.




 
        - The positive outspects of this project outweighs the inconveniences 
        the neighbors will have during construction of this project.




 
      - He is very much in favor of the SKS Bryant Street project.


 
      (+) Rus Sherman -Fougeron/Sherman Partnership and owner of a commercial 
      loft


 
      - Has lived in the neighborhood for 12 years.


 
      - Each project needs to be looked at in a case by case basis.


 
      - SKS has hired an international architectural firm to design the project.


 
      - The project provides much needed open space.


 
      - This project deserves the approval of the Commission.














 
      (+) Mary Wong - She and her husband own Skones.


 
      - She has had 3 landlords - one of the landlords is SKS.


 
      - SKS is a company that is concerned with their tenants. 


 
      - What SKS proposes, they keep their word.




 
        - When SKS does construction they do their best to have the least inconvenience 
        to their surrounding neighbors.




 
      - Supports this project and wants Commissioners to give it a chance.


 
      (+) Ashley David - Bay Area VAC (non-profit organization for media arts).


 
      - Part of the coalition of digital mission.




 
        - They are in favor of projects that provide low income people to attain 
        better paying jobs.




 
      - Supports the project.


 
      (+) Alma Robinson - California Lawyers for the Arts


 
      - There are constant calls of people that have been evicted.


 
      - They are trying to work with the developer to find place for these misplaced 
      artists.


 
      - They will be charged a low market rate rent.


 
      (neutral) Judy West - Lives and works in the neighborhood.




 
        - Believes that there have been accommodations made to many of the artists 
        and non-profits.




 
      - Would like to have non-profits be housed in this project.


 
      (+) Bob Planthold - Senior Housing Network and single parent


 
      - The old building is not accessible.


 
      - He would like to see height, bulk and mass reconsidered.


 
      - He thinks that people are trying to control the growth of this City.




 
        - Parents always want to do as much as they can for their children and 
        have them grow strong so they can face problems and siutations.




 
      (+) Bill Cril - Operations Manager for Swinerton and Walberg Builders




 
        - They have many projects in the city and plan to hire local residents 
        to work on the project.


 
        - The impacts construction will have on neighboroods have been discussed 
        with SKS to be minimized as muc as possible.




 
      (-) Lizette Hernandez - Mission Economic Development Association




 
        - This association has been in this neighborhood for over 25 years, providing 
        technical assistance to the small business community. They have also been 
        involved several community planning projects.


 
        - The mission district is based on a predominantly working class latino 
        community.


 
        - Recently the Mission has faced an onslought of poorly planned development 
        projects that have failed to work with the low-income working residents. 
        This has caused an outstanding displacement of renters.




 
      - They find the statements to be false of the project sponsor.




 
        - They are trying to launch a program for these low income people to own 
        their own homes. The only way to deal with displacement is for people 
        to own their own homes.




 
      - This is a social and environmental injustice. The project is taking away 
      open space.


 
      (-) Antie Kan - CABS (Community Alternatives for Bryant Square).


 
      - They found out about this project through rumors.




 
        - The neighborhood is exteremely diverse. The more diverse a neighborhood 
        the harder it is to rally up people for a common cause, but in this case 
        it was easy because many people are against it.


 
        Project is too big. Even the commercial buildings in the neighborhood 
        are smaller than the height of the current building.




 
      - Many of these neighbors have lived here for many years.




 
        - The lack of respect that the developer has shown has been able to group 
        together many of the neighbors and fight against the project.


 
        - They talked with over 1,000 neighbors and non mentioned any benefits 
        to them with the construction of this project.


 
        - Please listen to the concerns of the neighbors.




(-) 
      Moureen Neese - lives on 20th and Bryant.


 
      - Moved into the neighborhood because she is hispanic and she is an artist.




 
        - The project is a size of a downtown office building in the middle of 
        the Mission District.


 
        - She wanted to make an addition to her home yet she wasn
’t 
        allowed because the construction would have to be the same height as the 
        other houses yet the Bryant Street project is much taller than the rest 
        of the neighbor
’s 
        homes.




(-) 
      Jonathan Youtt - 


 
      - They want to build community through art and education.




 
        - He wasn
’t 
        notified of the construction otherwise he would be able to provide SKS 
        with information on so many organizations who would be able to speak of 
        their concerns and needs.


 
        - Part of his organization called YEA (Youth Enterprise in Arts) helps 
        youth of the neighborhood with jobs and apprenciteship prorams.


 
        - SKS never asked his organization for input on youth organizations and 
        find out what excactly these organizations might need.




(-) 
      Peter Southerland - lives about 2 blocks from the project


 
      - He is a 12 year resident of the neighborhood. He was never notified of 
      the project.




 
        - He made some research and came up with some statistics: Within the last 
        year, he counted 197 new live/work projects near the project site.




 
      - Half of these live/work projects are used for business.


 
      - He looked at all the project that are proposed and counted 192.




 
        - He understands that the Commission does not vote on projects that have 
        been converted. He did some research and came up with 240 sf that have 
        been converted or are under conversion. 


 
        - He has heard on the radio that many dot com companies are not going 
        IPO because of the market therefore are not looking for space.




(-) 
      Able Santana - has lived in the neighborhood for many years.




 
        - He has lived in the neighborhood for 38 years.


 
        - He believes that the project will bring in more people and more congestion.




 
      - When they start building there will be problems with construction.


(-) 
      David Naltz - Powerpoint presenter




 
        - They are here not as an adversarial group. They are here to bring constructive 
        solutions..


 
        - They do appreciate some of the work that the project sponsor has provided 
        but it
’s 
        not enough.


 
        - They are here to represent people that couldn
’t 
        afford to be here in the middle of the day.


 
        - There is a need for this space but the Mission is not the place for 
        it.




(-) 
      Richard Rustico - former tenant of the area that SKS is developing.




 
        - Presented a letter where SKS provided information that the sandblasting 
        would have the least amount of interruption.




 
      - Presented pictures of sandblasting done on Sunday.


(-) 
      Richard Marquez - Mission Agenda


 
      - Third generation San Franciscan


 
      - He was born, lived and labors in the Mission District.


 
      - He believes that this case is a 
“done 
      deal
”.


(-) 
      Sue Hester - CJAH


 
      - The staff report on this case talks about architecture but not about affordable 
      housng.


 
      - Rezone first, get some standards.


 
      - Real people and tenants will be affected.




 
        - This project does not follow the open space element.


 
        - There are no standards in this neighborhood because zoning hasn
’t 
        been updated since the 1950's.




 
      - Real people are going to be heard.


 
      (-) James Corcoran - 2121 Bryant Street 


 
      - He lives in the area where now it
’s 
      referred to as Bryant Square




 
        - The misplaced tenants were not aware of the proposed SKS 
“Bryant 
        Square concept
”. 
        Tenants were served a 30 day eviction notice as asked to leave.




 
      - This proposed project has a monstrous architecture.




 
        - The proposed project regardless of the political donation ramifications, 
        is a classic example of orchestrated greed.




(-) 
      Jul Neamer - lives across the street from the proposed project.


 
      - The building as it is presently proposed is too large and bulkly.


 
      - San Francisco is being built too quickly.




 
        - Presented an article from the Wall Street Journal of 5/3/00 - San Francisco 
        Landlords Get Picky About Dot-Coms. This is a 
“Dot.com
” 
        building.


 
        - Would like to have SKS to come back to the board and bring the project 
        down in scale.




(-) 
      Ken Owens - has lived in this neighborhood for over 20 years.


 
      - How does the size of the project work with the neighborhood.




 
        - Parking is limited in the neighborhood already. Parking at the new structure 
        is not enough for all the people who will be working there.




 
      - He would like to have the project to be broght down in scale by 20 to 
      30 percent.


(-) 
      Mary Bobbit - lives across the street from proposed project for about 15 
      years.




 
        - Showed photographs of the nieghborhood specifying that this is a residiential 
        neighborhood..




 
      - This is a very residential neighborhood.


 
      - Believes that this structure is to large for the neighborhood.


(-) 
      Mark Solomon - Computer Programmmer


 
      - He works for a dot com company




 
        - The culture of the Mission has always been diverse, he doesn
’t 
        know why some people call it a waste land.


 
        - He moved to the Mission District about 11 years ago.




(-) 
      Tom Wetzel - 


 
      - He would like to talk mostly about the transportation impact.


 
      - He has worked in the software industry and for dot com companies




 
        - The only part of the Mission that would support this type of construction 
        would be near BART and it is not near BART.


 
        - There will be many cars dumped in the Mission District which will make 
        it unsafe for children.




(-) 
      Amie Fishman - lives and works about 5 blocks away from project site.




 
        - She is frustrated because she feels that this is a done deal and would 
        like to the Commission to listen to people
’s 
        comments and views.




 
      - There is a housing crisis and not dot com
’s 
      crisis.


 
      - Please listen to the speakers and their concerns.


(-) 
      Antonio Diaz - PODER (People Organizing to Demand Environmental Rights)




 
        - Read a letter from Bryant Elementary School which is located 1 block 
        away from proposed project.


 
        - The school is conserned with the size and builk of the proposed Bryant 
        Street project.


 
        - The proposed project will impact many people in the neighborhood by 
        causing evictions..




(-) 
      Dan Ritz - Mission Economic Development Association


 
      - Digital Mission has placed many people in jobs


 
      - This development fragments the community instead of being a part of it.


(-) 
      Luis Granados - Mission Economic Development Association


 
      - Displacement is a real problem.


 
      - There are plenty of jobs, people need places to live.




 
        - The only colored people that go into the dot com company who is tenant 
        of his building, are the janitors.


 
        - Please reconsider and think of who this project benefits and it
’s 
        not the neighborhood.




(-) 
      Chris Daley - Coordinator of Mission Agenda


 
      - This organization is for the rights of low income renters.


 
      - He would like to see projects build but not by displacing people.


 
      - The Mission District has the more eviction than any other neighborhood.


(-) 
      Oscar Grande - PODER


 
      - He was born and raised in the Excelsior district




 
        - There was a lack of communication and notification to the people in 
        the neighborhood.


 
        - Many neighbors living just across the street did not know of the development. 
        Their organization went door to door asking people if they knew of the 
        project and they did not.




(-) 
      Eduardo Melendez - Sasha Body Shop - lives in the neighborhood


 
      - There will be about 45 families who will be misplaced


 
      - Please reconsider project.


(-) 
      Eric Quesada - PODER




 
        - When will the Commission and Planning Department make decisions that 
        are benefitial to the neighborhood.




 
      - Every day he deals with people who are being evicted


 
      - He is here to say NO to this project.


 
      - This is vitious displacement of people and communities.


 
      - People are living in crowded areas because of the lack of housing.


(-) 
      Heidi Rivera - has lived in the neighborhood for many years.


 
      - Neighbors were not aware of this project.


 
      - Latinos do not benefit from this development.


(-) 
      Corinda Vintel - lives in the neighborhood


 
      - She believes that the neighborhood has grown and progressed.




 
        - When she found out that SKS was going to construct a building made out 
        of brick to suposedly match the neighbor homes she was extremely upset 
        since the houses in the neihborhood are victorian flats.




 
      - This project is not the only place where artists can learn and practice.


 
      - There was no town meeting organized.


(-) 
      David McGuire -Resident of the neighborhood.


 
      - There seems to be a white invasion in the Mission District




 
        - Silicon Valley, when it was being created, lied about many things. Companies 
        dumped toxic waste in people
’s 
        back yards, drains, etc.




 
      - The Mission is the last livable neighborhood in San Francisco.




 
    ACTION: 
Motion to Approve with Staff Conditions


 
    AYES: 
Theoharis, Chinchilla, Joe, Richardson


 
    NAYES: 
Antenore


 
    ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin


 
    MOTION Nos.
 15043, 15044 and 15045
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








11. 
    2000.002C                                 (MIRAMONTES: 
    558-6348)


1415 
    VAN NESS AVENUE
, west side between Austin and Bush Streets, Lot 4 in Assessor's 
    Block 666 -- Request for Conditional Use Authorization under Planning Code 
    Section 209.8(d) for the provision of 4,700 square feet of office space located 
    above the ground floor on a site located within an RC-4 (Residential-Commercial 
    Combined, High Density) District, 130-V and E Height and Bulk Districts, the 
    Van Ness Special Use District and the Special Sign District for Illumination.






Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Approval with conditions


(Continued 
    from Regular Meeting of April 27, 2000)






SPEAKER(S):
 




(+)
 Ross Leon - Project Architect





 - During the time that the property was used as a restaurant, the
 upper floor was used as a storage area.





 - Previously the property was used as a car dealership.




ACTION:
 
Approved




AYES:
 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Chinchilla, Richardson




ABSENT:
 
Mills, Martin




MOTION
 NO. 
15046
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








12. 
    1999.824C (KOONTS: 558-6372)












 
    722 BROADWAY 
STREET, north side between Powell and Stockton Streets, Lot 
    8 in Assessor's Block 147 -- Request for Conditional Use authorization to 
    convert a vacant store on the ground floor of a two-story building with dwelling 
    units above to a take-out food establishment under Section 810.45 of the Planning 
    Code in the Chinatown Community Business District (CCB), Washington-Broadway 
    Special Use District and a 65-N Height and Bulk District.






 
    Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions
.






 
    SPEAKER(S): 
None






 
    ACTION: 
Approved






 
    AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Chinchilla, Richardson






 
    ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin






 
    MOTION No. 
15047
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






13.
 2000.184C                             (KIM
:
 
558-6290)




350
 JUDAH STREET
, northeast side, between 8th and 9th Avenues; Lot
 022 in Assessor’s Block 1763 - Request for Conditional Use authorization
 to allow the installation of eight panel antennas flush mounted onto
 the north side facade of an existing mixed-use building. The top
 of the antennas will not exceed the height of the existing structure
 and will be painted to match the building. In addition, an equipment
 shelter will be installed in the basement. There will be a cable
 connection between the equipment shelter and the antenna arrays,
 which will be routed up the north side of the building and enclosed
 in a cable tray painted to match the building. The facility is a
 part of a wireless telecommunications network operated by Nextel
 Communications, pursuant to Planning Code Section 711.83, in an NC-2
 (Small-Scale Neighborhood Commercial District) District and a 40-X
 Height and Bulk District.





 Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions







 SPEAKER(S): 
None





 ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions





 AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Chinchilla, Richardson





 ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin





 MOTION NO. 
15048
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








14. 
    2000.036C
 
    (CHIN: 
575-6897
)








2350 
    TURK 
STREET, northwest corner at Masonic Avenue; Lot 006 in Assessor's 
    Block 1107: -- Request for Conditional Use authorization pursuant to Section 
    209.6 of the Planning Code to install a total of two antennas and a base transceiver 
    station on an existing four-story building known as the Gershwin Theater at 
    the University of San Francisco as part of Sprint's wireless telecommunications 
    network in an RH-2 (Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Approval with Conditions






 
    SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
    ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions


 
    AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
    ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin




MOTION NO.
 15049






G.
 
SPECIAL DISCRETIONARY REVIEW HEARING






At Approximately


4:30 P.M.
 
6:53 p.m.
 the Planning Commission Convened 
    into a Special Discretionary Review (Dr) Hearing.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>


 






15. 
    1999.243D (BANALES: 558-6339)


1247 
    HARRISON STREET AND 428-8TH STREET
, south side of Harrison between 8th 
    and 9th Streets, Lot(s) 063, 065, 066 in Assessor’s Block 3757 -- Request 
    for discretionary review on an application that is proposing to demolish the 
    existing building on site and construct three new live/work buildings containing 
    a total of 64 units. The proposed project is in an Industrial Protection Zone, 
    a Service/Light Industrial (SLI), District, and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve building permit 
    application as submitted.


















(Continued 
    from Regular Meeting of April 13, 2000)




SPEAKER(S):


 






(+) Sue Hestor
 
- Coalition for Jobs, Arts and Housing.


 
    - She was going to get a letter from the developer but she never received 
    it.












 
          - The site has been used for buses for a long time. She asked the property 
          owner, where the buses would go, because she didn
’t 
          think that this would cause a transit problem.


 
          - She doesn
’t 
          think that this would be a good location for home since it has a freeway 
          ending and there is a gas station right across the street.


 
          - She wants to know if Coach USA is being kicked out or if they are 
          willingly moving out.


 
          - This is a good location for a transit yard.












(-) 
    Alice Barkley - Representing project sponsor


 
    - The site is used for employees of Coach USA not for the buses.


 
    - Coach USA will relocate and they don
’t 
    have any control over that.












 
          - The bus drivers need a place to park so when they start working early 
          in the morning or late at night and can
’t 
          take public transporatation.












 
    - The project will allow for bus drivers to park their cars.












 
          - Mos of the parking on the site is not necessarily just for drivers 
          it is also for office employees.












 
    - Coach USA will be moving no matter what.


 
    - This is a grandfather project and she believes it is appropriate.


 
    - Salvation Army is next door to project site.




(-)Joel Casy - Residential Builders


 
    - This project is 64 units.


 
    - The site was vacant before there was a parking lot.










 
        - At this site, there is over $1 million of contaminated soil to be cleaned 
        up so it
’s 
        a positive thing that this kind of contamination will be removed.










 
    ACTION: 
Public Hearing closed. Motion to take Discretionary Review failed 
    by a vote of +3-2. The matter was subsequently continued to May 11, 2000.


 
    AYES: 
Theoharis, Richardson, Chinchilla


 
    NAYES: 
Joe, Antenore


 
    ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








16. 
    2000.226D (JONES:558-6477)


3843 
    - 22ND 
STREET, south side between Castro and Noe Streets, Lot 032 in Assessor's 
    Block 3623 - Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application 
    NO. 9925096 to construct a two-story rear horizontal addition to an existing 
    two-story single family dwelling in RH-2 (House, Two-Family) District and 
    a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


 
    Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve the 
    Building Permit Application as submitted.








SPEAKER(S):




 
    (+) Rolf Tueller:


 
    - The neighborhood has not been informed of the proposed addition.












 
          - He was not properly notified about the hearing. He only heard about 
          it a few days ago.


 
          - The property owner stated that his construction would have little 
          impact on Mr. Tueller. Mr. Tueller would have no sunshine into his home 
          and that is large impact to him.


 
          - The design of the home was redesigned and the neighbors were not notified 
          of these changes.












(-) 
    Norman Peterson - property owner












 
          - Showed neighbor
’s 
          back yard which shows back porches which are between 7 and 8 years.


 
          - Home was purchased in 1905 by Mr. Peterson
’s 
          grandfather.


 
          - The revised proposed design has received 11 letters in support of 
          the project.












ACTION: 
    
Do not take Discretionary Review and approve as submitted.


AYES: 
    
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Richardson, Chinchilla


ABSENT: 
    
Mills, Martin
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








17. 
    2000.116D (MEHRA: 558-6257)


128-26TH 
    AVENUE
, east side between Lake Street and El Camino Del Mar, Lot 033 in 
    Assessor’s Block 1333 -- Request for Discretionary Review of BPA No. 
    9922449, proposing to change the materials on the south side of the building 
    from tongue and groove (T & G) siding to exterior grade plywood siding 
    in an RH-1(Residential, House, One-Family) District and a 40-X Height and 
    Bulk District.


 
    Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve the 
    building permit application.








SPEAKER(S): 
    


(+) 
    Frank Mahony


 
    - Doesn
’t 
    think that the information in the DR is true.


 
    - Has written about 15 letters to the Reuben and Alter firm.


 
    - He and his family left on vacation and construction began at the owner
’s 
    property.


 
    - He believes that the commissioners have been mislead.




(-) Joel Yodowitz - Reuben and Alter


 
    - Mr. Mahony mentioned about affecting his siding by putting scafolding and 
    Mr. Mahony had Mr. Louie
’s 
    contractor arrestd.


 - Mr. Mahony asked 
    the Louie
’s 
    for $10,000 to protect Mr. Mahony from damage and this is just unacceptable.




(-) 
    Frank Mahony


 
    - Mr. Yodowitz said that he no longer represented the Louie
’s.


 
    ACTION: 
Do not take Discretionary Review and approve as submitted


 
    AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
    ABSENT: 
Mills, Martin
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








18. 
    2000.113D (MILLER: 558-6344)


1552 
    POLK STREET
, southeast corner at Sacramento Street, Lot 1 in Assessor’s 
    Block 644 -- Request for Discretionary Review of BPA 9925357 for tenant improvements 
    to a portion of a building (approximately 1,700 square feet of floor area) 
    for use as a “Blockbuster” video rental establishment.


 
    Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and approve with conditions










SPEAKER(S):




(-) Richard Burk


 
    - Provided petitions and 3,000 signatures that are opposed to Blockbuster 
    moving in.


 
    - Feels that there will be a traffic problem and congestion.












 
          - On Polk street, there used to be two lanes going one way and two lanes 
          going the other. Now there is only one lane going in both directions.


 
          - There are bike lanes near City Hall but stop near project sight then 
          further down start again. He feels that with the traffic, cyclists will 
          be endangered.












- 
    Blockbuster wants to create an ugly street sign.


- 
    Chain stores are not welcome here.


 
    (-) Chris Ditney


- 
    Presented letters from 4 supervisors that are not in favor of this project.


- 
    Believes that the traffic will be terrible.


- 
    How many parking tickets does the Department of Traffic have to give out to 
    educate people not to double park.




(-) Bruce Kissler


- 
    Owns a video store in the area


- 
    There are other video stores within a 3 block radius.


- 
    Many of his customers came to him mentioning they are against this project.




(-) Ray Doyle


 
    - Believes that the cyclists could be in danger with the increase in traffic.


 
    - Many, many signatures have been presented against this project.


 
    - The neighborhood doesn
’t 
    want chain stores.


 
    - Double parking is common with chain video stores.




(-) Barry (last name not clear) - resident


 
    - Does not want a blockbuster in the neighborhood.


 
    - It will bring many problems to the neighborhood.




(-) Casey Earls - resident


 
    - Likes the neighborhood because it has a lot of character.


 
    - Blockbuster will not bring anything to the neighborhod.




(-) Claire McGee - past president of Russian Hill Neighbors 


 
    - Wants to promote small businesses.


 
    - As a neighborhood association, they oppose this project.




(-) Stephen Cornell - director of the Polk District Merchants Association


 
    - Owner of Brownies Hardware - a family owned business


 
    - 51.2% of San Francisco residents take cars












 
          - Polk Street has been designated a key traffic corridor therefore they 
          have eliminated double parked commercial vehicles.












- 
    He has had to schedule deliveries to 4:30 a.m. 


- 
    If restrictions are not carried forward, what will the Commission do about 
    that.




(-) Patricia Vaughey


 
    - The department continues to ignore the people speaking out.


 
    - Should put very serious conditions on this project.




(-) Ruth (last name not clear) - lived in Polk Street for 20 years.


 
    - Having Blockbuster video there will not do anything good to the neighborhood.




(+) Jim Reuben - Reuben and Alter












 
          - There are many people that follow Blockbuster around, in opposition 
          whenever they try to open other stores.












- 
    Muni and DPT are no friends of Blockbuster since they are departments conserned 
    with traffic. And ask what would be different about this location?


- 
    Many stores are ok with Blockbuster - there were 24 businesses that support 
    Blockbuster.






(+) Daniel Pino












 
          - Read a letter from Larry Dispain, president of the Alumni Board and 
          member of Sacred Heart/Cathedral High School Board of Regents.












 
    - Mr. Dispain supports Blockbuster.




(+) John Lee - Coach of Sacred Heart/Cathedral High School


 
    - Supports Blockbuster


 
    (+) Samuel Walters


 
    - He works hard and he works late


 
    - Appreciates that Blockbuster is open late and he can rent movies.




(+) Stuart Hyatt - Owner of the bar next door.












 
          - He has not made a formal request to expand to the location where Blockbuster 
          wants to open.












- 
    The neighbors will benefit from having a Blockbuster store.


- 
    Blockbuster donates to many worthy causes.


(+) 
    Theodore Donalson - property manager for the project site.


- 
    He was approached by many fast food retailers which offered more money than 
    Blockbuster did. - He did not want to accept leasing to food retailers because 
    of many other substantial problems. 


- 
    He believes that Blockbuster would be a good tenant.


(+) 
    Don Brady - 


- 
    Resident of the area for 20 years. He looks forward to having Blockbuster 
    in the neighborhood.


(+) 
    Mario Sazo


- 
    Coordinator of Yough Summer Program




- Blockbuster 
      has provided programs for youth sports programs.


 




ACTION: 
    
Public Hearing closed. Motion to not take Discretionary Review and approve 
    as submitted failed by a vote of +3-2 (Commissioners Joe and Antenore voted 
    no). The matter was continued to May 11, 2000.


AYES: 
    
Theoharis, Chinchilla, Richardson


NAYES: 
    
Joe, Antenore


ABSENT: 
    
Mills, Martin








Adjournment: 8:46 
    P.M.


 








Back to top
 








 




SAN 
    FRANCISCO


PLANNING 
    COMMISSION




 
    Meeting Minutes




Commission 
    Chamber - Room 400


City 
    Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place


Thursday, 
    May 11, 2000


1:30 
    PM




Regular 
    Meeting








PRESENT: 
            Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, 
    Chinchilla, Martin, Richardson


ABSENT: 
    Mills




THE 
    MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT THEOHARIS AT 1:37 P.M.




STAFF 
    IN ATTENDANCE: Gerald G. Green - Director of Planning, Larry Badiner - Zoning 
    Administrator, Paul Rosetter, Pedro Arce, Roger Herrera, Joan Kugler, Kenneth 
    Chin, Elizabeth Gordon, Jim Miller, Ellen Miramontes, Catherine Keylon, Matt 
    Snyder, Augustine Fallay, Linda D. Avery - Commission Secretary.




A. 
    
ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








1. 
      2000.015D                              
                    (KEYLON: 
      558-6613)


 
      860-62 48TH AVENUE
, north side between Cabrillo and Fulton Streets, 
      Lot 026A in Assessor’s Block 1690 -- Request for Discretionary Review 
      of BPA No. 9804669 & 9804670, proposing to demolish a single-family 
      dwelling and construct a new three-story, two unit building in a RH-2 (Residential, 
      House, Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve 
      building permit application as submitted.


WITHDRAWN
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








2. 
      1999.571C                             (ZWIERZYCKI: 
      558-6263)


 
      1344 OCEAN AVENUE
, northeastern corner of Granada Avenue, Lot 16 in 
      Assessor’s Block 3198 -- Request for Conditional Use authorization 
      under Section 711.83 of the Planning Code to install a total of nine panel 
      antennas on the roof of a four-story apartment building; and storage and 
      maintenance of related equipment in an existing storage room within the 
      ground-floor garage. Storage of equipment on ground-floor will not result 
      in elimination of parking stalls. The antennas and equipment storage are 
      part of a wireless communication network in an NC-2 (Neighborhood-Commercial, 
      Small-Scale) District; Ocean Avenue Fast Food Subdistrict; and 40-X Height/ 
      Bulk District.


















Preliminary 
      Recommendation: Disapprove 


 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of April 6, 2000)










(Proposed 
      for Continuance to 
May 25, 2000
 July 6, 2000)




 


SPEAKER(S): 
                    
None


ACTION:             
Approved




 
      AYES:             
Theoharis, 
      Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT:             
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




 




 
      3. 1999.668E (BLOMGREN: 558-5979)


 
      38-44 TEHAMA STREET/543 HOWARD STREET
, Appeal of a Preliminary Negative 
      Declaration--Assessor’s Block 3736, Lot 111. The proposed project involves 
      improvements to a three story building and construction of 23,000 square 
      feet on the fourth and mezzanine levels. The renovated and new space is 
      proposed for office use. With construction of the additional story and mezzanine 
      level, the building would be approximately 64 feet, 22 feet taller than 
      the existing structure. The 14,500 square-foot project site is composed 
      of one lot in the middle of a block bordered by Howard Street to the north, 
      First Street to the east, Tehama Street to the south, and Second Street 
      to the west. The site has frontages on Howard and Tehama Streets. The proposed 
      renovated and enlarged building would contain approximately 73,000 gross 
      square feet (gsf). The structure would not provide off-street parking. The 
      project would also include two off-street freight loading spaces.


 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of April 27, 2000)


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Uphold Negative Declaration


(Proposed 
      for Continuance to May 25 ,2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      4. 1998.604EMZCV               (BEATTY: 
      558-6163)


 
      Mission/Steuart Hotel, Northeast corner of Mission and Steuart Streets, 
      Lots 6, 7, 8, 9 and 17 in Assessor
’s 
      Block 3714--Consideration of the authorizations listed below in order to 
      allow the construction of a hotel ranging in height from 40 feet to approximately 
      84 feet, with approximately 200 to 210 rooms, and with accessory retail, 
      restaurant and meeting room space on City-owned property currently used 
      as a lay-over yard for San Francisco Municipal Railway (MUNI) buses and 
      proposed to be leased my MUNI to the hotel developer who will lease the 
      hotel to a hotel operator.










Preliminary 
      Staff Recommendation: Approval


 
      (Proposed for Continuance to June 1, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      5. 1998.604E               (NAVARRETE: 
      558-6163)


 
      Certification of the Final Environmental Impact Report prepared for the 
      proposed Project pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
      as accurate and complete. The Project consists of General Plan and Zoning 
      Map amendments, a finding of consistency with the General Plan, as it is 
      proposed to be amended, for a change of use on the Project Site (a City-owned 
      property) from a public use (MUNI bus layover) to a private use (hotel, 
      retail and restaurant); a Conditional Use authorization for a hotel use, 
      a granting of a Parking Variance, and other authorizations to facilitate 
      the construction of the hotel project.


 
      Preliminary Staff Recommendation: Approval.


 
      (Proposed for Continuance to June 1, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      6. 1998.604E               (NAVARRETE: 
      558-6163)


 
      Adoption of findings pursuant to CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines, and Chapter 
      31 of the San Francisco Administrative Code.


 
      Preliminary Staff Recommendation: Approval.




(Proposed for Continuance to June 1, 2000)




 


SPEAKER(S): 
        
None




 
      ACTION: 
            Approved




 AYES: 
Theoharis, 
        Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




 
      7. 1998.604M               (BEATTY: 
      558-6163)


 
      Application under Planning Code Section 340 to amend Map 2 (Height and Bulk 
      Plan) of the Northeastern Waterfront Element of the General Plan to change 
      the designation of the subject site (Lots 6, 7, 8, 9 and 17 of Assessor
’s 
      Block 3714) from O.S. (Open Space) to 84-E designation.


 
      Preliminary Staff Recommendation: Approval.




(Proposed for Continuance to June 1, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      8. 1998.604Z               (BEATTY: 
      558-6163)


 
      Application under Planning Code Section 302 to amend the official zoning 
      maps of the City and County of San Francisco to change the height and bulk 
      district classification of Lot 17 of Assessor
’s 
      Block 3714 from O.S. (Open Space) to 84-E and to change the use district 
      classification for the subject site (Lots 6, 7, 8, 9 and 17 of Assessor
’s 
      Block 3714) from a P (Public) district to a C-2 (Community Business) district.


 
      Preliminary Staff Recommendation: Approval.


(Proposed 
      for Continuance to June 1, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      9. 1998.604K               (BEATTY: 
      558-6163) 


 
      Determination
,
 
      pursuant to Planning Code Section 295, of whether the proposed project’s 
      shadow would result in any adverse impact on the use of the adjacent property 
      known as Embarcadero Plaza II-South (Justin Herman Plaza South) under the 
      jurisdiction of the Recreation and Park Commission.


 
      Preliminary Staff Recommendation: Approval.




(Proposed for Continuance to June 1, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      10. 1998.604R               (BEATTY: 
      558-6163)


 
      Consideration of a Finding of Consistency with the General Plan, as it is 
      proposed to be amended, for the change of use of the above-referenced City-owned 
      properties from public use for MUNI to a private hotel use on property to 
      be leased to the hotel developer and operator.


 
      Preliminary Staff Recommendation: Approval.




(Proposed for Continuance to June 1, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      11. 1998.604C               (BEATTY: 
      558-6163)


 
      Application for a conditional use authorization under Planning Code Section 
      303 , which provides procedures and required findings for conditional use 
      authorization, and under Planning Code Section 216(c), which requires a 
      conditional use authorization for hotels in the new C-2" district, 
      with exceptions from the bulk limitations of the 84-E height/bulk district 
      pursuant to Planning Code Section 271.


 
      Preliminary Staff Recommendation: Approval


(Proposed 
      for Continuance to June 1, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson




 ABSENT: 
Mills


 




 
      Concurrent with the Planning Commission hearing on the authorizations listed 
      above, testimony will be heard by the Zoning Administrator on the following 
      variance application:
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>


 
      12. 1998.604V (BEATTY: 558-6163)


 
      Application under Planning Code Section 305 for an off-street parking variance 
      for the proposed approximately 200 to 210 room hotel project described above. 
      Planning Code Section 151 requires 30 to 34 independently-accessible off-street 
      parking spaces for the proposed hotel, restaurant and retail uses in the 
      proposed C-2 zoning district. The applicant proposes to provide nine independently-accessible 
      parking spaces on the project site, which can accommodate up to 17 vehicles 
      through a valet operation.


 
      Preliminary Staff Recommendation: Approval.




(Proposed for Continuance to June 1, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      13. 2000.238DDD           (MEHRA: 
      558-6257)


 
      117 PARKER AVENUE
, west side between Euclid Avenue and Geary Boulevard, 
      Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 1064 -- Request for Discretionary Review 
      of BPA No. 9912789 & 9912791, proposing to demolish the existing single-family 
      dwelling and construction of a new two-story over garage two-family dwelling 
      in a RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height and 
      Bulk District.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve 
      building permit application as submitted.


(Proposed 
      for Continuance to June 8, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      14. 1999.310E (NAVARRETE: 558-5975)


322-6TH 
      STREET
, Appeal of Negative Declaration - Assessor’s Block 3754 
      Lot 3. The proposal is to demolish one existing industrial/commercial warehouse 
      building on the site and construct one building containing 15 live/work 
      units and 15 off-street parking spaces within a 3-story structure (including 
      mezzanine approximately 50 feet in height. The project site is located in 
      a Service/Light Industrial/Residential (SLR) Mixed Use District, within 
      a 50-X height/bulk district. The proposed project site is within a Mixed 
      Use Housing Buffer area, adopted by the Planning Commission as in interim 
      zoning control.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Uphold Negative Declaration.




 






(Continued 
      from Regular Meeting of April 13, 2000)




(Proposed for Continuance to June 22, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
            Approved


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills






B. 
    
PUBLIC COMMENT






At 
      this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of 
      interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of 
      the Commission except agenda items. With respect to agenda items, your opportunity 
      to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the 
      meeting with one exception. When the agenda item has already been reviewed 
      in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify 
      and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address 
      the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the 
      Calendar. Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to 
      three minutes. If it is demonstrated that comments by the public will exceed 
      15 minutes, the President or chairperson may continue Public Comment to 
      another time during the meeting.






“The 
      Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item 
      not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public 
      comment. In response to public comment, the commission is limited to: 






(1) 
      responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; 
      or






(2) 
      requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or 
      






(3) 
      directing staff to place the item on a future agenda. (Government Code Section 
      54954.2(a))








SPEAKER(S): 
      
Patricia Vaughey












 
            Would like to have Commissioners look closely at the correspondence 
            in their packets, weather it be pro or con, since last week there 
            were 2 cases where it appeared that there were a lot of hear/say testimony. 
            The department said that there was support from the public yet there 
            were letters which stated there wasn
’t 
            support.














Lloyd Schlagle












 
            Regarding Item 23 - 1247 Harrison Street and 428 8th Street -This 
            large old building site is in an industrial area and provides covered 
            parking for cars and buses and a work area for maintenance workers. 
            Across the street. The site is proposed for housing and housing is 
            not needed here since there are other residential areas. This area 
            should be proposed for work purposes. The porposed housing will be 
            a disruption to the work area. 












C. 
    
COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






15. 
      Consideration of Adoption - draft minutes of 4/13/00 and 4/27/00.






 
      ACTION: 
Approved






 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson






 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








16. 
      Commission Matters












Commissioner Theoharis - 
 She would like to see just 5 Discretionary 
          Review cases heard per Commission Meeting. The public needs to have 
          the Commissioners’ full attention and if there are too many, it 
          becomes quite difficult.
















Commissioner Antenore:
 - Regarding the Brannan Square Project 
          - Would like to request from the director a statement as to the status 
          on the issues regarding payment of fees of affordable housing, transportation 
          and child care.










D. 
    
DIRECTOR’S REPORT
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






17. 
      Director
’s 
      Announcements.








Gerald Green:










1)


The department will try to schedule only 5 new Discretionary Reveiw 
          cases. Although, sometimes some cases are continued to a particular 
          date, therefore, it may come to more than 5.
 














2) 
          Recognized Mr. Paul Rosetter for his retirement.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>














18. 
        Review of Past Week
’s 
        Events at the Board of Supervisors & Board of Appeals.






BOS: 
None








BOA: 
None
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>


 




19. 
      
TRANSPORTATION AND COMMUNITY AND SYSTEM PRESERVATION PILOT PROGRAM (TCSP) 
      AUTHORIZATION
. A resolution confirming that the Director has the authority 
      to enter into an agreement with Caltrans regarding the Planning Department's 
      TCSP grant for planning in the Balboa Park Station Area.








SPEAKER(S): 
None








ACTION: 
Approved








AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson








ABSENT: 
Mills






 
      RESOLUTION NO.
 15052






E. 
    
CONSIDERATION OF FINDINGS AND FINAL ACTION - PUBLIC HEARING CLOSED
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






20. 
      1999.437D                             (BANALES: 
      558-6339) 






250 
      CLARA STREET
, northwest side between 5th and 6th Streets, Lot 206 (formerly 
      Lot 066) in Assessor’s Block 3753 -- A Staff-initiated Discretionary 
      Review of BPA No. 9907464S, proposing to demolish existing auto services 
      structures and construct 16 live/work units in a RSD (Residential/Service 
      Mixed Use District) a Mixed Use Buffer zone, and a 40-X/85B Height and Bulk 
      District.






Preliminary 
      Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve building permit 
      application as submitted.






 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of May 4, 2000).








Note: On April 13, 2000, following public testimony the Commission closed 
      the public hearing. A motion to approve with staff findings failed to carry 
      by a vote of +3 -2. Commissioners Joe and Antenore voted no. Commissioners 
      Chinchilla and Martin were absent.






 
      Note: On May 4, 2000, a motion to approve failed to carry by a vote of +3 
      -2. Commissioners Antenore and Joe voted no. Commissioners Mills and Martin 
      were absent.






 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None






 
      ACTION: 
Approved






 
      YES: 
Theoharis, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson






 
      NAYES: 
Joe, Antenore






 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








21. 
      2000.113D (MILLER: 558-6344)






1552 
      POLK STREET
, southeast corner at Sacramento Street, Lot 1 in Assessor’s 
      Block 644 -- Request for Discretionary Review of BPA 9925357 for tenant 
      improvements to a portion of a building (approximately 1,700 square feet 
      of floor area) for use as a “Blockbuster” video rental establishment.






 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and approve with conditions






 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of May 4, 2000)








Note: On May 4, 2000, following public testimony the Commission closed 
      the public hearing. A motion to take discretionary review and approve with 
      conditions failed to carry by a vote of +3 -2. Commissioners Antenore and 
      Joe voted no. Commissioners Mills and Martin were absent.






 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None






 
      ACTION: 
Motion to Approve failed to carry. Continued to 6/1/00.






 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Chinchilla, Richardson






 
      NAYES: 
Joe, Martin, Antenore






 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>












22. 
      1999.578C         (LeBLANC: 558-6351) 
      








 615 HYDE STREET
, northwest corner at Geary Street; Lot 008 in Assessor's 
      Block 0302 -- Request for Conditional Use authorization to install a wireless 
      telecommunications facility in an RC-4 (Residential-Commercial Combined) 
      District, the North of Market Residential Special Use District (Sub-Area 
      #2) and an 80-T Height and Bulk District. The proposed project is the installation 
      of two panel antennas, one on each street frontage, flush mounted to the 
      roof parapet approximately 55 feet above ground level, and base station 
      equipment in the basement of the building as part of a wireless transmission 
      network operated by Sprint Spectrum.






 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions.






 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of May 4, 2000).








Note: On April 6, 2000, following public testimony the Commission closed 
      the public hearing. A motion to approve with the condition that this site 
      can not be used as a co-location site failed to carry by a vote of +3 -2. 
      Commissioners Antenore and Richardson voted no. Commissioners Chinchilla 
      and Theoharis were absent. Substitute motion to disapprove also failed to 
      carry by a vote +2 -3. Commissioners Joe, Martin and Mills voted no. Commissioners 
      Chinchilla and Theoharis were absent. The item was continued to April 13,
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
      2000.








Note: On May 4, 2000, a motion to approve with conditions failed to carry 
      by a vote of +3 -2. Commissioners Antenore and Richardson voted no. Commissioners 
      Mills and Martin were absent.






 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None






 
      ACTION: 
Approved






 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla






 
      NAYES: 
Antenore, Richardson






 
      ABSENT: 
Mills






 
      MOTION NO. 
15053
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      23. 1999.243D (BANALES: 558-6339)


 
      1247 HARRISON STREET AND 428-8TH STREET
, south side of Harrison between 
      8th and 9th Streets, Lot(s) 063, 065, 066 in Assessor’s Block 3757 
      -- Request for discretionary review on an application that is proposing 
      to demolish the existing building on site and construct three new live/work 
      buildings containing a total of 64 units. The proposed project is in an 
      Industrial Protection Zone, a Service/Light Industrial (SLI), District, 
      and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve 
      building permit application as submitted.


















(Continued 
      from Regular Meeting of May 4, 2000)


Note: 
      On May 4, 2000, following public testimony, the Commission closed the public 
      hearing. A motion to not take discretionary review and approve the proposal 
      failed to carry by a vote of +3 -2. Commissioners Antenore and Joe voted 
      no. Commissioners Mills and Martin were absent.


 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION:       
No Discretionary Review. 
      Motion to approve failed to carry. Continued to 6/1/00


 
      AYES:               
Theoharis, 
      Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      NAYES:               
Antenore, 
      Joe, Martin


 
      ABSENT:               
Mills












F. 
    
REGULAR CALENDAR
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






 
      24. 2000.034ET (ROSETTER: 558-5987)


 
      CASTRO STREET NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT USE SIZE AMENDMENT
 Consideration 
      of a proposal to amend the Planning Code (Zoning Ordinance) by amending 
      Sections 178 and 186.1 to reduce the period of nonuse for conditional and 
      nonconforming uses to be deemed abandoned in the Castro Street Neighborhood 
      Commercial District (NCD) from 3 years to 18 months and to provide that, 
      in the Castro Street NCD, a use exceeding the use size provisions for that 
      district can be changed to another use only as authorized by another conditional 
      use authorization; and by amending Sections 121.1 and 715.21 to reduce from 
      2,500 to 2,000 square feet the use size threshold over which uses in the 
      Castro Street NCD need a conditional use; to establish 4,000 square feet 
      as the maximum use size in the Castro Street NCD; and to provide that, in 
      the Castro Street NCD, any Other Retail Sales and Services use category 
      that exceeds the 4,000 s.f. use size limit cannot change to another use 
      category nor can it change it's operation so as to provide a different line 
      of goods or services enumerated in Section 790.102, which defines the Other 
      Retail Sales and Services use category.








 
      SPEAKER(S):




(+) Supervisor Leno:


- 
      Would like to thank Mr. Rosetter and Mr. Herrera on the hard work and the 
      thorough information gathered regarding this project.


- 
      This NCD could be overtaken by national chains.


- 
      The neighborhood does want a major supermarket.


- 
      The neighborood wants to protect the theatre.


- 
      The neighborhood does not want to see small shops to be taken over by large 
      chain stores.


- 
      Would like to have the support of the Commissioners.


- 
      Would like to emphasize that the thing that merchants and neighbors do not 
      want a national chain clothing store. 


(+) 
      Lion Barnett - President of Eureka Valley Promotion Association


- 
      Read a letter from EVPA to the Commissioners regarding their approval of 
      the Castro NCD.


- 
      Would like to have the changes to be approved.


(+) 
      Patrick Batt - President of the Merchants of Upper Market and Castro


- 
      The Castro is an internationally known destination of San Francisco and 
      would like to keep it as a neighborhood.


(-) 
      Lee Julian - Broker - Herth Real Estate


- 
      Owns a few building in the Castro area.


- 
      This legislation is ill-founded and does not take into consideration the 
      reality of business.


- 
      Thinks that this change is impractical and would like Commissioners not 
      to approve it.


(+) 
      Joe Curtin - president of Castro Area Planning and Action


- 
      Supports the amendments to changes of the Planning Code.


- 
      This is a very appropriate change to the zoning rules.


- 
      This allows the community to have a role in the changes of the neighborhood.


(+ 
      ) Linton Stables - vice president of Castro Area Planning and Action


- 
      Supervisor Leno has researched the impacts of the changes.


- 
      Would like to have Commissioners approve this project.




(-) 
      Jim Sullivan - one of the partners of the property at 470 Castro Street


- 
      There have not been any offers from a clothing store to move in there.


- 
      He is worried that if there is limit in space there will be extra space 
      that will not be able to be rented.


ACTION: 
      
Approved as amended by Staff


AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


ABSENT: 
      
Mills




RESOLUTION NO.
 15054
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






 
      25. 2000.329B (ARCE: 558-5986)






MISSION 
      BAY SOUTH BLOCK 28
.-- Request under Planning Code Section 321(Office 
      Development: Annual Limit) for a determination of the design quality and 
      Project Authorization of the proposed office development for a five and 
      six story building including 225,004 square feet of office space, 40,000 
      square feet of research and development space and
 
4,230 square feet 
      of neighborhood-serving retail space, pursuant Resolution No.14702 by which 
      the Planning Commission adopted findings pursuant to Planning Code Section 
      321 (b) (1) that office development contemplated in the Mission Bay South 
      Redevelopment Plan in particular promotes the public welfare, convenience 
      and necessity, and in so doing, considered the criteria of Planning Code 
      Section 321(b)(3)(A) through (G).




The 
      Project Site lies within the Mission Bay South Redevelopment Area and is 
      classified as a Commercial Industrial district, as defined in Section 302.3 
      of the Mission Bay Redevelopment Plan, and is within the Height Zone 5 (HZ-5) 
      and a special height district that limits the maximum height of buildings 
      to 90 feet. The area of the Project Site is approximately 80,619 square 
      feet






The 
      301,272 gross square feet development of Block 28 would be the second stage 
      of the first phase of development in a proposed 1.3 million square feet 
      Mission Bay South office campus on Blocks 26, 26a, 27 and 28. This proposal 
      focuses on the second stage of the first phase of office development in 
      Mission Bay South. It consists of 225,004 square feet Class A office space, 
      40,000 square feet of research and development space and of 4,230 square 
      feet of supporting retail uses. The proposal includes the development of 
      the 
“vara
” 
      public access and utilities easement bordering the west side of Block 28, 
      approximately 21,920 square feet of open space that includes a plaza and 
      landscaped areas, and a temporary surface parking area in the future Mission 
      Bay South Block 30, located south of the Site.




Pursuant 
      to Code Sections 314, the project, which the Department has determined would 
      result in the addition of 290,837 square feet of office use gross floor 
      area, would require the provision of Child Care facilities. Any person may 
      appeal this initial determination by delivering an appeal in writing to 
      the Department within 15 days of this notice.




The 
      project authorization for Block 28 is an undertaking pursuant to and in 
      furtherance of the Mission Bay South Redevelopment Plan (
“Plan
”). 
      The Final Subsequent Environmental Impact Report (
“FSEIR
”) 
      prepared for the Plan and related actions is a Program EIR under CEQA Guidelines 
      Section 15168 and a redevelopment plan EIR under CEQA Guidelines Section
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
      15180. The Project authorization is within the scope of the Plan approved 
      earlier and the FSEIR adequately describes the project authorization for 
      the purposes of CEQA.




 
      SPEAKER(S): 




(+) Doug Gardner - President of Catellus












 
            - Would like to commend the Planning Department on the hard work related 
            to this case.












 
      - Gave a Powerpoint presentation on the design and master plan of the project. 
      


 
      Catellus has tenants already for this building.












 
            - This project is appropriate for the neighbordhood.












 
      - Building was designed to look simple yet not boring.


 
      ACTION: 
          Approved


 
      AYES: 
 Theohars, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT:           
Mills


 
      RESOLUTION NO. 
15055
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






26. 1999.154E (KUGLER: 558-5983)


992 
      PERALTA AVENUE
, on the west side of Peralta Avenue, at the corner of 
      Peralta and Tompkins; Lot 36 of Assessors Block 5696. Appeal of a Preliminary 
      Negative Declaration for a planned unit development (PUD) of 66 condominium 
      residential units and 3,500 sq.ft. retail. The proposed project is the construction 
      a structure with residential units, a 2,500 sq.ft convenience store and 
      a 1,000 sq.ft. fast-food takeout after demolishing three existing warehouse 
      structures and removing an existing truck parking/storage yard. The new 
      four-level building (three residential floors over a ground floor that would 
      contain the retail space and 66 spaces of internal parking) is proposed 
      to be constructed to follow the topography and would cover the entire lot 
      at differing grade levels. The building would be approximately 40 feet in 
      height. The proposed site is zoned NC-S with a 40-X Height/Bulk District. 
      


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Uphold Negative Declaration




(Continued from Regular Meeting of April 6, 2000)




 
      SPEAKER(S):


(+) 
      Austin Stack - homeowner and representative of the South Bernal Action Alience


- 
      Would like to commend staff on the hard work devoted to this project.


- 
      He will be adversely affectied by this project.


- 
      This huge, out-of-character structure does not belong in this neighborhood.


- 
      When these units are sold, the developers will be long gone and the current 
      neighbors will be the ones to face the problems arising from the develoment 
      of this project.


- 
      The surrounding area is zoned residential, the only area not residential 
      is because of the farmers market.


(+) 
      Geoffrey Bauman - member of the South Bernal Alliance and resident


- 
      He is in favor of housing but building housing complexes far from transit 
      is not a good idea.


- 
      The area is not well served by traffic since Peralta is a dead end street, 
      and there are a few other streets that reach dead ends. The neighborhood 
      is based on hills and slopes.


(+) 
      Nora Roman


- 
      The negative impact report is not accurate.


- 
      Any new construction has to be affordable housing since people who are low 
      income and moderate income are being forced out by owner move-ins, evictions 
      and houses being sold out from under them. Any new housing has to be affordable 
      housing.


- 
      This project is based on expensive condominiums that only rich can afford.


(+) 
      Giulio Sorro


- 
      Lives and works in the neighborhood and was born and raised there.


- 
      The major issues in the neighborhood is housing and traffic yet this project 
      will have a negative impact on these issues.


- 
      On June 17, there will be neighborhood congress meeting and this case will 
      be a major issue at this event. Would not want this to go ahead since at 
      this meeting there will be more comments and imput regarding this project.


(+) 
      Deanne Franklin - SBAA


- 
      She lives 1000 Jarbaou resident.


- 
      If this project is approved, will the next step be to take over the open 
      spaces that are left.


- 
      Would like to see areas planned for open space, parks, etc.


Would 
      like to see some kind of proof that the city is trying to maintain some 
      kind of 

      quality of life.


(+) 
      Tracy Hues


- 
      She lives in Noe Valley


- 
      The construction will produce more garbage trucks which will make traffic 
      unbearable.


(-) 
      Steve Swasson - Project Architect


- 
      Since the beginning of the project, his company has had many meetings with 
      the     neighbors and apparently the most important 
      issues are the stores involved in the project.


- 
      They are trying to work with the neighborhood and keep the massing low.


- 
      He is excited about this project.


ACTION: 
      
Approved to uphold negative declaration


AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Chinchilla, Richardson


NAYES: 
      
Joe
, 
Martin


ABSENT: 
      
Mills


MOTION 
      NO.: 
15056
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




 
      27. 1999.173A (GORDON: 558-6309)


 
      250 BRANNAN STREET
 north side between Delancey (First) and Second Streets, 
      Lot 25 in Assessor's Block 3774 and 41 Federal Street, south side west of 
      Delancey (First) Street, adjacent northerly to 250 Brannan Street, Lot 15 
      in Block 3774 -- Under the authority of Article 10 of the Planning Code, 
      a Request for a Certificate of Appropriateness for the alteration, as defined 
      by Planning Code section 1005(c)(1), and adaptive reuse of the Contributory/Altered 
      warehouse/light industrial building at 250 Brannan Street, and for demolition 
      of a vacant non-Contributory light industrial structure and construction 
      of a new, four-story live/work structure at 41 Federal Street. Per Planning 
      Code section 1006.2(a)(1), the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing 
      on any application for a Certificate of Appropriateness for any alteration, 
      demolition or new construction in a historic district. The subject properties 
      are within the South End Historic District, are zoned SSO (Service/Secondary 
      Office) and are in a


50-X Height 
      and Bulk District. The proposed Certificate of Appropriateness was recommended 
      for approval by the Landmarks Preservation Advisory Board at its Regular 
      Meeting of April 5, 2000.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Approval




SPEAKER(S):


Suhail 
      Tova - Attorney and project sponsor


- 
      Because the location is in a historic district, under the redevelopment 
      plan, an approval from the Commission is required to convey this to the 
      Redevelopment Commission.


(+) 
      John McNolte


- 
      The project is 4 parcels and located in a historical district.


- 
      51 units will be affordable housing.


- 
      250 Brannan Street - this building has seen many lives during the hundred 
      years that it has been there. Building will be renovated bringing it up 
      to code and making it acceptable for the business service use.


- 
      41 Federal Street -- this building will be demolished. A live/work, 4-story 
      building with 9 units will be constructed at this location.


- 
      One Federal and 200 Brannan - these buildings will be rehabilited and 51 
      units will be constructed. 


- 
      The project design will be compatible with the neighborhood and will include 
      191 units.


- 
      They have worked with many neighborhoods and all have agreed on the project.


(+) 
      Jim Haas - Chair of the Rincon Point South Beach CAC


- 
      His community has worked with the architect and developer. There have been 
      many changes to the design and have agreed on this final version.


- 
      This is the last development site in the south beach area.


- 
      He looks forward to this developemnt.


- 
      More jobs and housing in the area is a good idea.


(-) 
      Sue Hestor


- 
      The issues are not architectural issues but use designation of this site.


- 
      There will be problems with changing live/work to commercial because of 
      Prop M use policies regarding changing industrial to office.


- 
      She has issues and problems with policy changes that are not dealt with 
      in public and without public debate.


- 
      She believes that this project will eventually change from industrial to 
      office.


(+) 
      Amy Neches - San Francisco Redevelopment Agency and Project Manager for 
      the Rincon Point/South Beach Project


- 
      Two of the 4 parcels are within redevelopment jurisdiction - one of the 
      buildings is owned by the agency


- 
      One Federal is an agency-owned building and it will be developed for 51 
      affordable housing units.


- 
      One of the agency
’s 
      most challenging work is to provide affordable ownership of property.


- 
      This project is an excellent opportunity to provide affordable ownership 
      opportunity.


ACTION: 
      
Approved as amended by staff


AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


ABSENT: 
      
Mills


MOTION 
      NO. 
15057
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








 
      28. 2000.078G (KOMETANI: 558-6478)








580 HOWARD STREET
, north side between First and Second Streets. Lot 
      91 in Assessor's Block 3721 -- Request for approval under Planning Code 
      Sections 1106 and 1107 to change the boundaries of the New Montgomery-Second 
      Street Conservation District to include the subject property and to upgrade 
      its Article 11 designation from Category V, Unrated to Category IV, Contributory.






SPEAKER(S):


(+) 
      Joel Yodowitz - Reuben and Alter












 
            - Mr. Yodowitz did not have a presentation but was available for questions.














(-) 
      Sue Hester


- 
      The developer wants another tax brake.


- 
      The site was approved as live/work and it is not being occupied as live/work.


- 
      The tenants of this building are all business and not live/work.














 
            - She called all the current tenants and no one stated that they were 
            live/work.












ACTION: 
      
Continued to 6/1/00


AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


ABSENT: 
      
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




29. 
      1998.967C (MILLER: 558-6344)


 
      3132 - 23RD STREET
, northeast corner at Shotwell Street, Lot 20 in Assessor’s 
      Block 2628 - Planning Commission-mandated one-year review for compliance 
      with conditions of approval of Motion No.14810 authorizing a CONDITIONAL 
      USE to establish a PLANT NURSERY WITH ASSOCIATED RETAIL SALES in an RH-3 
      (House, Three-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.






SPEAKER(S): 
      


(+) 
      Margarita Rodriguez Guzman representing the project sponsor Ms. Maria del 
      Carmen Ramirez


- 
      Ms. Guzman read a letter from Ms. Ramirez that stated that she believed 
      that she had met all the requirements except for the parking variance. She 
      would like to have until June to be able to meet this requirement.


- 
      The information submitted against the nursery have been determined to be 
      misleading.


- 
      The reason why Ms. Ramirez did not comply with the variance was because 
      she spent a lot of time negotiating with the landlord.


- 
      There is a tent where the nursery is and there is a 75 watt lightbulb. There 
      is also a patio that does not have a flood light.


(+) 
      Lizette Fernandez
 
- MEDA


- 
      Her organization represented Ms. Ramirez last year.


- 
      She started off as a very small business that expanded into a nursery.


- 
      She developed a business plan and a bank approved her for a loan. Unfortunately, 
      she wasn
’t 
      able to take the loan because she had gotten in debt of $20,000.00.


- 
      Neighbors and businesses donated money for her to be able to pay off this 
      debt.


(+) 
      Lillian Bolter


- 
      Last time the case was heard it wasn
’t 
      about how nice Ms. Ramirez was.


- 
      There is a parking issue in the Mission District anyway.


(+) 
      Patricia Diaz


- 
      She visits Ms. Ramirez
’ 
      family regularly.


- 
      She closes at the required time.


- 
      Christmas lights are allowed in the neighborhood.


- 
      The other lights are very limited.


- 
      The parking issue could be related to the Cala Foods and Liquor Store near 
      by.


(+) 
      Asik Ali - lives on Shotwell Street


- 
      He has lived in that neighborhood for 14 years.


- 
      All the neighborhood is in favor of the nursery.


- 
      The whole neighborhood has a problem with parking on top of sidewalks.


- 
      There is one person who does not want to have the nursery there.


- 
      This person against the nursery should come out and talk to the rest of 
      the neighbors and this person will realize that everyone is in favor of 
      the nursery.


(+) 
      Antonio Diaz - PODER


- 
      Support the continuing existence of the nursery.


- 
      He has been working closely with the neighborhood.


- 
      It
’s 
      important for them to support a neighborhood business that is attempting 
      to beautfy the neighborhood.


- 
      The nearby school has taken trips to the nursery to teach kids about plants 
      and flowers.


(+) 
      Richard Marquez - Mission Agenda


- 
      This flower shop is only 5 blocks away from the Bryant Square project.


- 
      There are many neighbors, non-profits and agencies in support of this nursery.


- 
      He asks cordially to allow for a continuance for Ms. Ramirez to be able 
      to run her family owned business.


(+) 
      Oscar Grande - organizar with PODER


- 
      He was born and raised in the Mission and Excelcior Districts.


- 
      The lighting is related to Christmas lights 


- 
      The Mission is notorios for limited parking.


- 
      There are over 500 supporters for keeping this nursery.


(+) 
      Miguel Tamayo - neighbor


- 
      The lighting issue is related to Christmas lights.


- 
      He lives 3 blocks away from the nursery.












 
            - He and his family shop at this nursery all the time.












(+) 
      Lisa Gonzalez


- 
      She has spoken with several of the neighbors who don
’t 
      have a problem with the nursery.


- 
      Condition NO. 9 - states that the shop should close at 7:00 and have always 
      closd at this time. During Holloween, she called Mr. Miller to ask permission 
      to stay open and there was an approval so long as there were no sales made. 
      No sales were made.


- 
      At another time, Ms. Ramirez and some guests were celebrating the approval 
      of her nursery and still, no sales were made.


(-) 
      Peter Jaques


- 
      One of many people that don
’t 
      support this nursery.


- 
      Several of the conditions have not been met.


- 
      The nursery is covered by a blue tarp and he sees very little beauty in 
      that.


(-) 
      Sam Kowarskii


- 
      He lives across the street from the flower shop. He has lived there since
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
      1974.


- 
      He wasn
’t 
      in agreement with having the nursery there but he decided to let it go for 
      a year and conditions have not been met.


- 
      He believes that if Ms. Ramirez didn
’t 
      comply with the laws, then why would Ms. Ramirez comply with the rules if 
      there is an extention.


(-) 
      Audrey Barrett - neighbor


- 
      She would like to see the parcel remain zoned as residential since there 
      is such a shortage of housing.


(-) 
      Irving Rosenthal - Neighbors Against Business Expansion in Residential Zones


- 
      The conditions have not been met throughout the whole year.


- 
      It is a busy corner, cars are coming and going.


- 
      He is alergic to a lot of traffic.


- 
      When he first moved into the neighborhood, it was a quiet area.


(-) 
      James Windsor - neighbor


- 
      The conditions have not been met.


- 
      There is a lot of cars on the sidewalk.


- 
      Ms. Ramirez has even attempted to open a produce market.


- 
      He is concerned about the tents, before there was only one, now there are 
      more.


(+) 
      Giovani Ramirez


- 
      The lights were on at 7 before he closed.


- 
      His family is just trying to make a living.


ACTION: 
      
Continued to August 17, 2000 to allow compliance with conditions of approval.


AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


ABSENT: 
      
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




30. 
      2000.037C                       (MIRAMONTES: 
      558-6348)


531 
      DIVISADERO STREET
,


west side 
      between Hayes and Fell Streets, Lot 6 in Assessor's Block 1204 -- Request 
      for Conditional Use Authorization under Planning Code Section 145.2 to provide 
      outdoor seating at the rear of a NEW ground floor restaurant 
called 
      Herbivore
 
      on a site located within an NC-2 (Small-Scale Neighborhood Commercial) District 
      and a 65-A Height and Bulk District. The proposal is
 
      to provide an outdoor seating area for 18 customers at the rear of a ground 
      floor restaurant.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions


 SPEAKER(S):
 
            (+) speaker’s name not understood


- 
      Wants to have outdoor seating to his restaurant.


- 
      He agrees with all the conditions in the report except for the heating lamp 
      and hours of closure.


- 
      He is not sure if he will install the heating lamp yet if the need arises 
      he would like to be allowed to install them. 


- 
      He would like to have the hours extended.


ACTION: 
      
Approved with staff conditions


AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Richardson 


NAYES: 
      
Chinchilla


ABSENT: 
      
Mills


MOTION 
      NO. 
15058
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




31. 
      2000.281C (CHIN: 575-6897)








2300 CALIFORNIA STREET
, northwest corner at Webster Street; Lot 033 
      in Assessor’s Block 0636 - Request for Conditional Use authorization 
      pursuant to Section 209.6 of the Planning Code to install a total of three 
      antennas and a base transceiver station on an existing three-story over 
      basement commercial building as part of Sprint’s wireless telecommunications 
      network in an RM-1 (Residential, Mixed, Low Density) District and a 40-X 
      Height and Bulk District.






 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions




SPEAKER(S):


(+) 
      Jennifer Astis - representing Sprint PCS


 
      - This complies with the WTS guidelines and the SF Municipal Codes.


(-) 
      Tracy Hues - resident of Noe Valley














 
            - These antennas are showing up all over the place like 
“bunnies
” 
            except that bunnies are living creatures.












- 
      Study after study points to cancer from these antennas.


- 
      This antenna will be installed over a hospital. Antennas should not be installed 
      in schools, hospitals, etc.


ACTION: 
      
Approved with staff conditions


AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


ABSENT: 
      
Mills


MOTION 
      No. 
15059




32a. 
      99.414C (BRESSANUTTI: 575-6892)








325 FREMONT STREET
,east side between Folsom Street and Harrison Street; 
      Lots 12, 13 and 14 in Assessor's block 3747 - Request for Conditional Use 
      Authorization per Planning Code Section 253 (building exceeding 40 feet 
      in height in an R District) and Section 249(b)(1) (site coverage exceeding 
      80 percent) to allow construction of a new 21-story, 200-foot-tall residential 
      building with not more than 54 dwelling units above four levels of parking 
      (three levels below grade and one level at grade) with up to 54 spaces, 
      within an RC-4 (Residential-Commercial Combined District, High Density) 
      District and the Rincon Hill Special Use District, and a 200-R Height and 
      Bulk District. 






 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions. 






 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
Without hearing, continued to 6/1/00


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills




32b. 
      99.414V (BRESSANUTTI: 575-6892)








325 FREMONT STREET
,east side between Folsom Street and Harrison Street; 
      Lots 12, 13 and 14 in Assessor's block 3747 -The Zoning Administrator will 
      conduct a joint hearing on a request for a front setback Variance per Section 
      249(c)(3) and an open space Variance per Section 249(c)(4)(B).




 




Preliminary 
      Recommendation: Approval.








 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
Without hearing, continued to 6/1/00


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




33. 
      1999.746C (BRESSANUTTI: 575-6892)               


360-10TH 
      STREET
, west side between Folsom Street and Harrison Street; Lot 9 in 
      Assessor’s Block 3520 - Request for Conditional Use Authorization to 
      allow the demolition of two dwelling units per Planning Code Section 803.5(b) 
      and 233(a) and to allow construction of six new live/work units in the Industrial 
      Protection Zone across the street from the Mixed Use Housing Zone per Planning 
      Commission Resolution No. 14861, in the South of Market Service/Light Industrial/Residential 
      (SLR)Mixed Use District and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions.


 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of April 27, 2000)




 
      SPEAKER(S): 
None


 
      ACTION: 
Continued to 5/25/00


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>






34. 
      2000.182C               (SNYDER: 
      575-6891) 


291-293 
      DUBOCE AVENUE
, southeast corner of Duboce Avenue and Market Street, 
      Lot 58 in Assessor's Block 3534 -- Request for Conditional Use authorization 
      under Planning Code Section 712.83 to install six flush mounted antennae 
      (three facing south and three facing west) on the building's elevator penthouse 
      approximately 50-feet above sidewalk grade in an NC-3 Use District and an 
      80-B Height and Bulk District. As part of the proposal, a base transceiver 
      station would be installed within the building. The installation of the 
      antennae and related equipment would be part of a wireless communication 
      network operated by Nextel Communications.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with conditions.


 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of April 13, 2000)




SPEAKER(S):


(+) 
      Molly Cails - Nextel Communications


 
      - Site is needed to increase coverage in the area.












 
            - They have submitted a 10-point health study as required by the City. 
            This facility will comply with the Federal Safety Guidelines.












(-) 
      Tracy Hues - Resident of Noe Valley












 
            - There was a lack of notification from the project planner.












- 
      There are studies (i.e. from the Marin Journal) that states that antennas 
      are causing cancer.












 
            - On the April 30, 2000 Sunday paper, there is an article about Mr. 
            Green and the FBI regarding allowing antennas to go up without permits 
            on Sutro Tower.












- 
      People do not want these antennas in their neighborhoods.


(-) 
      Nancy Callaghan


- 
      She lives at 191 Duboce Street which is a block away from the proposed antenna 
      site.


- 
      There is a scientific proof that these antennas are causing health problems.


- 
      Would like to wait for the installations of antennas until there are more 
      scientific evidence that these antennas are a health hazards.




(-) Eric P. Scott












 
            - He did receive notice from Nextel and the Planning Department about 
            this hearing.












- 
      He is in opposition of this antenna.


- 
      He believes that these antennas will be a hazards since there seems to be 
      a lot of vandals in the area and he is afraid that people will want to protest 
      by climbing these antennas.




(-) Annette Craig












 
            - She opposes the installation of this antenna.












- 
      She grew up in this residential area.


- 
      There hasn
’t 
      been enough research about the hazards of these antennas.


- 
      Why does the antenna have to be installed on her street.




(-) Jody Moroh


- 
      She is a cancer patient and lives on Guerrero Street and does not want these 
      antennas installed in her neighborhood.


- 
      The antenna will impede her recovery from cancer.


- 
      She is very concerned about the long term exposure from the emissions of 
      the antennas.


- 
      She has lost loved ones to cancer.




(-) Gordon Winiemko


- 
      Lives on Guerrero Street


- 
      He was here last time there was a case related to antennas.


- 
      He passed to the Commissioners a copy of the Martin Journal article on health.


- 
      The city should be able to turn these cases down.


- 
      Last time, there were 90 signatures that frequent the area that were in 
      opposition.


- 
      He would like the Commission to make a rule on this and deny the installation.


(-) 
      Ryan Alan


- 
      He works at Kinkos where this antenna is proposed to be installed.


- 
      Everyone at Kinkos is opposed of this installation.


- 
      There is a great deal of locals that are concerned.


- 
      He works 40 hours a week working at Kinkos and he is worried about having 
      these antennas all over the place.


- 
      He would like Commission to vote against this.


 
      ACTION: 
Approved with staff conditions


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla


 
      NAYES: 
Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills




MOTION NO.
 15060






G. 
    
SPECIAL DISCRETIONARY REVIEW HEARING






At Approximately


5:00
 p.m. 7:05 pm. 
the Planning Commission Convened 
      into a Special Discretionary Review (Dr) Hearing. Procedures governing Special 
      DR Hearings are as follow: DR Requestor(s) are provided with up to five 
      (5) minutes for a presentation and those in support of the DR Requestor(s) 
      are provided with up to three (3) minutes each. The Project Sponsor is then 
      provided with up to five (5) minutes for a presentation and those in support 
      of the Project are provided with up to three (3) minutes each. At the conclusion, 
      each side (not each person) is provided with 2 minutes for a rebuttal. Those 
      cases that are scheduled on this calendar prior to 4:30 PM, but have not 
      been called or heard by 4:30 PM, could be continued to a later time or date 
      as determined by the Commission.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>


 








35. 
      2000.235D (M.SNYDER: 575-6891)


 
      175 BREWSTER STREET
,east side between Esmeralda Avenue and Joy Street, 
      Lot 12 in Assessor's Block 5577 -- Request for Discretionary Review of BPA 
      No. 9924021 proposing to construct a single-family house on a vacant lot 
      within an RH-1 (House, One-Family) District, a 40-X Height and Bulk District, 
      and the Bernal Heights Special Use District.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take DR and approve the Building Permit 
      application as submitted.








SPEAKER(S):


(+) 
      Julie Andersen


- 
      She has lived in the neighborhood since 1974.


- 
      She bought a house at 190 Brewster Street


- 
      The neighborhood is based on victorian homes.


- 
      All the homes are complementary to each other.


- 
      There are two completed homes and one in the process of being built.


- 
      All the houses of the downhill side, follow the contour of the down hill. 
      


- 
      The proposed building would be too tall and is out of character with the 
      rest of the homes.


- 
      The road is exteremely narrow.


- 
      There is limited parking.


- 
      This would be the first building on the down hill slope and it will be very 
      visible.


- 
      She believes the owner that the top floor will not be made into a penthouse.


 
      (+) Carey Davis


 
      - lives at 159 Faith Street (corner of Faith and Brewster)


- 
      Brewster street was a rural road.


- 
      There has been a lot of work done on this neighborhood as a result, the 
      area is becoming interesting to developers.


- 
      The Bernal Heights Design Review Board has a long history of successful 
      negotiations with designers and developers in an effort to retain the unique 
      character of the nieghborhood.












 
            - In this case the suggestions of the BHDRB have been ignored.












- 
      She is not opposing the project, she would like the suggestions of the BHDRB 
      be acknowledged and reduce the structure by one floor.


(+) 
      Doile McGallan


- 
      He bought a home at 18 Joy Street about 30 years ago


- 
      The houses at the street above are at most 2 stories tall.


- 
      He doesn
’t 
      belive that a house of 3 stories should be constructed.


- 
      He opposes the project completely.


(+) 
      Terry Mill - member of the East Slope Design Review Board


- 
      When the project sponsor came to this board with the proposal, the board 
      asked for some changes to the plan.


- 
      He thinks that there is inaccurate information that was given to the Commissioners.


- 
      The project sponsor decided not to follow their advise.


(+) 
      Jacque Marchant - member of the East Slope Design Review Board


- 
      His issue is related to the landscaping particularly the trees and irrigation 
      system that the city installed at taxpayers expense. The construction of 
      this home will cause and has caused the death of many trees which were recently 
      put it.


- 
      Would like to have construction/building to be responsible for any damage 
      done to the recently landscaped streets.


(+) 
      Deb Coss - liveson Faith Street


- 
      She is the current chair of the Bernal Heights East Slope Design Review 
      Board


- 
      She read a letter to the Commissioners where the vast majority of the neighbors 
      signed a letter opposing this project.












 
            - There are 3 requests that the neighbors would like: 1) Would like 
            to have developers seriously follow the suggestions of the Design 
            Review Board, 2) Would like to have responsible code compliance with 
            this building, 3) Remove 3rd story from this construction.












(+) 
      Paul Boden


- 
      lives on Joy Street


- 
      His house faces towards where this construction will be done.


- 
      Construction will be a 6 story tall building.


- 
      Many of the residents on that street, are part of the Design Review Board 
      and have met with the project sponsor. There are strong oppositions to this 
      concstruction.


- 
      The report says that the construction will improve parking, yet he doesn
’t 
      have any space to park. 


(+) 
      Nicholas Yakovouski


- 
      He owns a house near the construction site.


- 
      He worked with the Design Review Board and they helped him design his house.


- 
      The street is very narrow. 




(+) 
      Peter Shwabb


- 
      The Design Review Board has helped many of the neighbors construct their 
      homes and basically have guidelines in the construction of homes in the 
      neighborood.


(-) 
      Chad Hamilton - architect for the project 


- 
      The engineers
’ 
      seal is on the survey.


- 
      He and his client met with neighbors, 


- 
      The project is on an undeveloped site.


- 
      Most of Brewster Street are 3 story houses.


- 
      The requestor
’s 
      home is 3 stories high.


(-) 
      Joe Fung - property owner


- 
      The construction is in full compliance with all the codes.


- 
      This is just a single family home that he is building.


- 
      He has provided parking space for two cars but can have 5 parking spaces.


- 
      The construction is in compliance


(-) 
      Tiger Wong


- 
      He knows the property owner and completed an addition to his restaurant.


- 
      Mr. Fung has complied with all the issues and codes.


(-) 
      George Stang - he works in the Building Department


- 
      Mr. Fung is a man of good integrity.


- 
      He has helped in the construction of many low cost housing including schools.


- 
      All he wants is a home for he and his family.


- 
      Mr. Fung is not a developer, he is just a general contractor who wants to 
      build his own home.














 
              ACTION: 
Take an intent to DR to require the removal of one story 
              (staff will come back on 5/18/00 with findings).














 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




36. 
      2000.204DD (
MEHRA: 558-6257
)
(KEYLON: 558-6613)


2690 
      BROADWAY
, northeast corner 
between
 
of
 Divisadero 
      Street, Lot 002B in Assessor’s Block 0960 - Request for Discretionary 
      Review of BPA No. 9913321, proposing to demolish an existing three-story, 
      single-family residence and construct a new 3-story single-family residence 
      in an RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) District and a 40-X Height and 
      Bulk District.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: 
Take Discretionary Review and approve 
      building permit application with modifications.
 Do not take Discretionary 
      Review and approved project as revised.


 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of March 23, 2000)






 
      SPEAKER(S): 


 
      (+) Ron Zep - owns 2563 Divisadero Street


- 
      He is currently renovating his house and will be moving in with his family 
      when it is finished.


- 
      The property owner has a very large home with a small lot.


- 
      The house is too tall particularly at the rear..


- 
      The height of the home reaches 49 feet.


- 
      Certain facts were omitted from the nieghbors.


- 
      The Cow Hollow neighbors support taking a DR.


 
      (+) Cyndy Yu - owns
 
2682 Broadway 


- 
      The laws in the codes are maintained for safety and keeping the quality 
      of our environment.


- 
      Would like to have the Commissioners help with finding a balance in this 
      situation.


- 
      This is not a neighbor to neighbor issue.


- 
      Many neighbors are in opposition to this project.


 
      (+) Matt Francois - Cassidy, Shimko and Dawson


- 
      The proposed construction will cause blockage of light and air to Ms. Yu
’s 
      property.


- 
      The design of the home is not in compliance with the rest of the homes in 
      the neighborhood.


- 
      Would like to modify the design of the home.


 
      (+) Maryann Hubden


- 
      She lives near the proposed construction.


- 
      She will lose light to her house.


- 
      The house has taken 11 feet of sidewalk.


- 
      She can
’t 
      see up the hill, when she wants to take her car out of her garage.




(-) Alice Barkley - represents project sponsor


- 
      Passed information and photo montages showing images of the proposed construction.




(-) Bernardo Linquieta - project architect


- 
      The house will be built to be handicapped accessible.


- 
      The design is of superior quality.


- 
      There have been changes to the design (the height of the builing has been 
      lowered, the bay window has been pulled back 2 feet, the penthousehoue has 
      been reduced, the elevator lobby has been eliminated). These changes have 
      reduced the mass of the building.


- 
      They have been very respectful of the neighborhood and neighbors.


 
      ACTION: 
Do not take DR and approve building permit with modifications


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      NAYES: 
Joe




 ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>


 




37. 
      2000.201D              
                       
      (KOONTS: 558-6372)


 
      318 KEARNY STREET
, west side between Pine and Bush Streets, Lot 006 
      in Assessor’s Block 0269 -- Request for Discretionary Review of BPA 
      No. 9919611, proposing to reverse conditions currently attached to the property 
      (no outdoor tables on Belden Alley) in a C-3-0 (Downtown Office) District 
      and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve 
      building permit application subject to the conditions of approval included 
      in the draft motion.






 
      SPEAKER(S):




(+) Ray Bashow - representing Financial District Food Services


 
      - He owns a restaurant called Spagetteria at 318 Kearny Street.












 
            - He would just like to have the same rights as the restaurants on 
            Belden Alley.












 
      - He has 24 tables inside and 3 tables outside.




(+) Joseph Bashir


 
      - The seating in his restaurant is limited.


 
      - When he opened his restaurant he didn
’t 
      know about the conditions.


 
      - He moved into this space about 9 months ago.




(-) Olivier Azancot


 
      - He has had this restaurant for many years.


 
      - Belden Lane used to be just a back alley.


 
      - Belden became a tourist destination thanks to their hard work.






(-) Mrs. Kunio












 
            - Belden was chosen for it
’s 
            special character to have outdoor seating for these restaurants.


 
            - Spagetteria is not a fine service restaurant. It is a fast food 
            service.












(-) 
      Be Picsa


- 
      Former restaurant critic with the San Francisco Examiner


- 
      Introducing a fast food operation to Belden place would be like putting 
      a low end shop at Union Square.




(-) Pino Espinozo - Owner of Tiramisu Restaurant


- 
      He has about 4,000 signatures in support of Belden Alley.














 
              ACTION: 
Intent to not take DR and approve building permit (staff 
              will come back on 5/18/00 with findings).














 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








38. 
      2000.199D              
                       
      (FALLAY: 558-6367)


 
      420 COLLINGWOOD STREET
, west side between 21st and 22nd Streets, Lot 
      004 in Assessor’s Block 279 -- Request for Discretionary Review of 
      BPA No. 9913273 proposing to replace the existing building with a four-story, 
      two-family dwelling in a RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) District 
      and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


 
      Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve 
      building permit application as submitted.








 
      SPEAKER(S): 




(+) Lokelani Devone - Resident at 424 Collingwood Street


 
      - There are about 82 neighbors who oppose this project.


 
      - Neighbors support the DR requestor.


 
      - The proposed project is too large.


 
      - The developer has made some consessions.


 
      - The streets are so narrow that parking is only allowed on one side.




(+) Jeannene Przyblyski - Resident at 414 Collingwood Street


 
      - She lives 2 doors to the north of the proposed construction.


 
      - The planner came to discuss issues with the neighbors.


 
      - Concerns about light, air and privacy should be protected.












 
            - The planner gave them reason to believe that the changes made by 
            the planner were reasonable.












 
      - Later on, the changes made by the planner were to be unreasonable.




(+) Sean Culman
 -
 Resident at 442 Collingwood Street


- 
      He is a member of the Steering Committee of the Collingwood Hill Association


 
      - They have asked for some changes just to match the image of the neighborhood.


 
      - The planner agreed to these changes.




(+)Curt Holzinger - Architect for Ms. Devone


 
      - He is an architect but also lives in the neighborhood.


 
      - The project is terribly out of scale.




(+) Bill Barrett
 
- Lives at 3957 22nd Street


 
      - Lives in the neighborhood.


- 
      The computer rendering showed doesn
’t 
      really show the impact the new construction will have on the rest of the 
      houses.


- 
      2.3 stories is the average height of buildings in the neighborhood.


(+) 
      Rae Leaper - Lives at 445 Collingwood Street


- 
      The neighbors are not opposed to reasonable solutions.




(+) 
      Larry Lensky - Lives at 336 Collingwood Street


- 
      This buidling is disrespectful to the neighborhood.


- 
      Proposition M is the law.


- 
      Please reject building plans that are too large.


(+) 
      Norm Leaper - Lives at 445 Collingwood Street


- 
      He and his wife have lived there for 32 years.


- 
      The street is in a quiet, middle-class neighborhood. It has a pleasant blend 
      of homes which have been upgraded inside and out but that preserve the image 
      of the neighborhood.


- 
      Allowing this project to proceed, it would allow for the construction of 
      an ugly structure that would destroy the charming image of this neighborhood.


(+) 
      Diane Barrett
 - 
Lives at 3957 22nd Street


- 
      Please consider two points: Prop M - established as a priorty policy that 
      wxistig neighborhood character conserved and protected.


- 
      There are elderly people


(+) 
      Cynthia Kear
 
- Lives at 457 Collingwood Street


- 
      Has lived in the neighborhood for about 7 years.


- 
      She is a member of the steering committee


- 
      The association wants to express their opposition of the construction of 
      this home.


- 
      Many speakers had to leave because of appointments and previous engagements 
      but all are in opposition of this construction.


(+) 
      Eric Jaye - Lives at 414 Collingwood Street


- 
      Virtually the whole neighborhood is present in opposition.


- 
      They would like to reach an accommodation with the property owner.


- 
      Would like to sit down with the property owner and reach a solution. They 
      believe that they are close to reaching an agreement.


(+) 
      Ed Merrill - 


- 
      The property owner has purchased two properties on the same block and therefore 
      the intent is to make these properties developments. The property owner 
      has no intent to live in these homes.


(+) 
      Steve Nichelson - Sanchez Hill Neighborhood Association


- 
      Does not live on Collingwood Street but supports the neighborhood associaton.












 
            - He got a call from Norm Leaper to ask him to support their issues.












 
      ACTION: 
Take DR and limit so it’s not to exceed 3 stories over garage


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Richardson 


 
      NAYES: 
Chinchilla


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




39. 
      2000.414D (BORDEN: 558-6321)


74 
      EAGLE STREET
, 
east 
      side between Yukon and Mono Streets, Lot 016 in Assessor's Block 2711 -- 
      Request for Discretionary Review of BPA No. 2000011377'S', a proposal to 
      add 
an approximately 
      34' long x 30' wide second story addition to the existing on
e-story, 
      single-family dwelling
. 
      The facade will also be remodeled to accommodate the addition of a one-car 
      garage inside the existing residence in an RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) 
      District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


Preliminary 
      Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve building permit 
      application as submitted.


SPEAKER(S): 
      
None


ACTION: 
      
Withdrawn
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








40. 
      2000.249D       (MARTIN: 558-6616)






1050 
      IOWA STREET
, west side between 23rd and 25th Streets, Lot 016 in Assessor's 
      Block 4226 -- Request for Discretionary Review of BPA No. 9907699, BPA No. 
      9907700, and BPA No. 9907701, proposing to construct three buildings containing 
      a total of 26 live/work units: Building A with ten; Building B with six; 
      and Building C with ten, each building to be four stories and one mezzanine, 
      in an M-1 (Light Industrial) District (Industrial Protection Zone) and a 
      40-X Height and Bulk District. The site is an odd-shaped (narrow and long) 
      vacant lot. The project is set for a Mandatory Discretionary Review per 
      City Planning Commission Resolution No. 14861.


Preliminary 
      Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and disapprove this proposal.


(Continued 
      from Regular Meeting of April 13, 2000)






SPEAKER(S): 
      
None






ACTION: 
      
Without hearing, continued to 7/13/00






AYES: 
      
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson






ABSENT: 
      
Mills
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>








41. 
      2000.250D                       (MARTIN: 
      558-6616)






1228 
      - 25th STREET, 
north side between Iowa and Indiana Streets, Lot 013A 
      in Assessor's Block 4227 -- Request for Discretionary Review of BPA No. 
      9907691 and BPA No. 9907692, proposing to construct two buildings containing 
      two live-work units each: Building A to be four stories and Building B to 
      be three stories, in an M-2 (Heavy Industrial) District (Industrial Protection 
      Zone) and a 50-X Height and Bulk District. The site is an odd-shaped (narrow 
      and long) vacant lot. The project is set for a Mandatory Discretionary Review 
      per City Planning Commission Resolution No. 14861.


Preliminary 
      Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and disapprove this proposal.






 
      (Continued from Regular Meeting of April 13, 2000)


 
      SPEAKER(S):
 None


 
      ACTION:
 Without hearing, continued to 7/13/00


 
      AYES: 
Theoharis, Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson


 
      ABSENT: 
Mills






Adjournment: 
    10:30 P.M.














Back to top
 








Return to the Planning Department's Home Page. 
Click here. 
 














San Francisco City and County Links
<<Project End>>