This website offers functionality that requires JavaScript. To easily turn ON JavaScript you can follow the instructions provided on the following websites:Enable JavaScriptandWikiHow
SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, January 19, 2017
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Richards, Hills, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar Moore
COMMISSIONER ABSENT:Fong
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 12:08 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Stephanie Skangos,Michael Christensen, Susan Exline, Wade Wietgrefe, Diego Sanchez, Rich Sucre, Jeffrey Speirs, Christopher May, and Jonas P. Ionin – Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1.2015-008674CUA(C. MAY: (415) 575-9087)
325 29thAVENUE- west side, between Clement Street and California Street, Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 1404 (District 1) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317 to demolish an existing one-story, single-family dwelling and construct a new four-story, 2-unit building within a RH-2 (Residential – House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of October 20, 2016)
(Proposed for Continuance to March 9, 2017)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to March 9, 2017
AYES:Fong, Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
2.2015-006815DRP(A. KIRBY: (415) 575-9133)
813 LYON STREET- west side of Lyon Street between Golden Gate Avenue and Turk Street; Lot 005 in Assessor’s Block 1150 (District 2) -Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2015.05.07.5705, proposing the construction of a two-story vertical addition and horizontal expansion to accommodate two new dwelling units within a RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis: Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of October 20, 2016)
WITHDRAWN
3.2015-003686CUA(N. TRAN: (415) 575-9174)
437 HOFFMAN AVENUE- east sideof HoffmanAvenue,between24thand25thStreets,
Lot 024 in Assessor’s Block 6503 (District 8) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317 (tantamount to demolition), for a project proposing to demolish an existing three-story over basement, single-family residence and construct additions to create a three-story over basement building with two dwelling units. Exterior changes such as raising the structure ~6 feet for a new garage door, front porch, entry stairs, rear terrace/deck as well as extensive interior remodeling are also proposed. The subject property is located within a RH-2 (Residential-House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of October 20, 2016)
WITHDRAWN
SPEAKERS:Janet Fowler (submitted):
The Project Sponsor has had four months to revise the project and implement the June 30, 2016 Commission directives.In light of the directives, and also with respect and concern for the process, I am rewriting the staff memo to better state the facts:
Here’s what I think would be a more fitting Staff Memo:
Since the June 30, 2016 hearing, the Project was revised to keep the New Zealand Christmas Tree, the garage was moved to the south side instead of being eliminated, the building will be lifter higher so that height of the building will be increased rather than reduced, part of the western breezeway will be retainedfor light in the lower unit, and there was chipping away net to the northerly neighbor at the rear to reduce the overall demolition stats thereby reducing some massing around the northerly property’s windows and service stairwell that does not address the elimination of sunshine to this neighbor.The roof, after the first 15 feet from the facade, is minimally sloped and, with the building’s increased overall height, it further enhances the loss of sunshine to the northerly neighbor and enhances the loss of privacy to both the northerly and southerly neighbors.In addition, the Project has been revised to encourage cooperation between unit dwellers by providing upper-unit access to the rear via the lower unit.The Project has also been revised to accentuate the incongruence of its excessive height in comparison to the neighboring homes and from the street view and to ensure the incongruity with the character of the neighborhood.
June 30, 2016 Planning Commission Directives:
1) maintain the breezeway between Mr. Geisler’s property and the project
2) save the existing tree
3) eliminate the garage so as to reduce the addition of mass at the rear;
4) reduce the height and continue the peaked roof as it is all the way back to allow sunlight to adjacent buildings;
5) reduce the size and/or eliminate the terraces;
6) “step down” the building with the other at the rear and on the stree-scape;
7) retain the façade and more of the building to avoid a demolition; and,
8) abide the Residential Design Guidelines to reduce and shape the proposal to fit the neighboring buildings and topography.
Commissioner Moore:
“So I move that we continue the project and look for the architect to work with the Planning Department and with adjoining neighbors.”
Georgia Schuttish:
This project at 437 Hoffman has had a great many twists and turns.Three DR requestors, all immediate neighbors to the project filed their DR over a year ago.
The project was changed to a CUA at the Sponsor’s request.Two hearings were continued in the Spring of 2016.
On June 30, 2016 the Commission heard the CUA and made specific directives to revise the Project.
The Commission was to review changes, on October 27, 2016, but instead Sponsor asked for an indefinite continuance which the Commission denied and set a hearing for today.
Now the project is withdrawn.A new 311 will be issued.
In order to be fair to the neighbors and most importantly the process, I am asking the Commission to grant a fee waiver to the three original DR requestors, IF they decide to file a DR.
Please consider this today and please consult with the City Attorney if you need to at the hearing today since this will be your only chance to weigh in on the withdrawal.
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
4.2016-004865CUA(S. SKANGOS: (415) 575-8731)
1101 FILLMORE STREET-west side between Turk Street and Golden Gate Avenue; Lot 002 of Assessor’s Block 0755 (District 5) - Request for aConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(c) and 747.33A, to modify an existing AT&T Mobility Wireless Telecommunications Services Facility consisting of installation of three (3) new antennas (for a total of six (6) antennas) mounted on an existing rooftop behind new screening; relocation of three (3) existing antennas to behind new screening; installation of three (3) new Radio Relay Units (RRUs); relocation of six (6) existing RRUs; and other equipment upgrades as part of the AT&T Mobility Wireless Telecommunications Network. The subject property is located within the Fillmore Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) Zoning District and 50-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
MOTION:19833
5.2016-005788CUA(S. SKANGOS: (415) 575-8731)
1111 JUNIPERO SERRA BOULEVARD- east side between Shields Street and Sargent Street; Lot 024 of Assessor’s Block 7080 (District 13) - Request for aConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(c), 209.1, and 710.33A, to modify an existing AT&T Mobility Wireless Telecommunications Services Facility consisting of installation of (3) new antennas (for a total of nine (9) antennas); relocation of (1) existing antenna; installation of (3) new RRUs-11 with (3) new A2 modules at antennas; installation of (4) new FRP screens in between antennas located on north face and west face of steeple; installation of (9) new antenna shrouds on all antennas; installation of (3) new RRUs-11 at equipment area; and other equipment upgrades as part of the AT&T Mobility Wireless Telecommunications Network. The subject property is located within a NC-1 (Neighborhood Commercial, Cluster) & RH-1 (Residential- House, One Family) Zoning Districts and 40-X & 26-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
MOTION:19834
6.2016-010298CUA(M. CHRISTENSEN: (415) 575-8742)
610 BRANNAN STREET- north side between 5thStreet and 6thStreet; Lot 047 of Assessor’s Block 3778 (District 6) - Request for aConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 156, 157.1, 303, and 846.40, to operate an automobile parking lot at the subject property, utilizing an existing parking lot which was previously used for fleet vehicle storage. The subject property is located within the SALI (Service/Arts/Light Industrial) Zoning District and 40/55-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
MOTION:19835
7.2016-008445CUA(M. CHRISTENSEN: (415) 575-8742)
2230 LANE STREET- west side between Yosemite Avenue and Third Street; Lot 006 of Assessor’s Block 5414 (District 10) - Request for aConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 210.4, to allow one residential unit to be added on the second floor of the existing two-story building, and to allow for a horizontal addition at the rear of the second floor to expand the residential unit. The subject property is located within a M-1 (Light Industrial) Zoning District and 65-J Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
MOTION:19836
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
8.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for January 5, 2017
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:Fong, Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
9.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
None
February 23, 2017 Hearing:
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Reinstated
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
10.Election of Officers:In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the San Francisco Planning Commission, the President and Vice President of the Commission shall be elected at the first Regular Meeting of the Commission held on or after the 15thday of January of each year, or at a subsequent meeting, the date which shall be fixed by the Commission at the first Regular Meeting on or after the 15thday of January each year.
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Rich Hillis – President
Dennis Richards – Vice-President
AYES:Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
11.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Good afternoon Commissioners, no new announcements, except to say congratulations to Commissioner Hillis, President Hillis, and thank you to Commissioners Fong and Richards, so we look forward, on behalf of the Department, we look forward to continuing a great relationship. Thank you.
12.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
No Report
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Good afternoon Commissioners, Tim Frye, Department staff, and yesterday the Historic Preservation Commission convened their first meeting of the year and there are a few items to share with you of note. First of all, they continued their election of officers until their first hearing in March, as there are several Commissioners that are still waiting for reappointment by the Mayor’s Office and confirming by the Board of Supervisors. However, at the regular hearing the Commission unanimously initiated local landmark designation for the El Rey Theater. El Rey Theater located on Ocean Avenue is architectural significant as one of the best art deco theater designed by master Architect Timothy Pflueger. The Commission will hear the item one more time and make a formal recommendation to the Board of Supervisors. We anticipate that second hearing will happen in the next couple of months. The Commission also issued the last Certificate of Appropriateness for the Van Ness BRT Project. The remaining items that were up for deliberation was the final design for the Van Ness BRT bus stop directly in front city hall, as well as the outcome for the restoration of four of the historical trolley poles in front of City Hall. The Commission unanimously approved to the preferred options from the MTA, for one, the restoration of the trolley poles and a much more refined and simplified design for the bus shelter in front of City Hall, which will be slightly differentiated from the ones you will see along the rest of the corridor. And finally, the Commission also provided review and comment on 1076 Howard Street. This is a project you'll see next week where a historic resource will be requesting a CU to allow for office within the MUG Zoning District for the restoration of the exterior of the building. The Commission did make some modifications to the proposal and asked for more restoration to the current front façade, based on the historic drawings that were present as part of the project sponsor’s package. Finally, the HPC provided or had an opportunity to provide review and comment on the Draft EIR for the Central Soma Area Plan. They had no comments at this time and commended the staff on a very thorough and thoughtful job on the analysis and the mitigation measures outlined in that draft report and that will be in front of you as well. That concludes any comments and presentation unless you have any questions. Thank you.
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:Spike Khan – Safer art spaces versus displacement
Tom Radulovich – Environmental review, transportation analysis
Russell Marine – MCD on Bayshore Boulevard
Marlene Tran – Postpone the MCD on Bayshore
Speaker: Postpone MCD on Bayshore
Speaker – 2442 Bayshore project sponsor lack of transperancy
Josephine Zhao – Request delay for 2442 Bayshore past Sept. 21
Peter Cohen – State Density Bonus
Speaker – MCD’s in general
Georgia Schuttish – RDG’s
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
13.2015-013229CWP(S. EXLINE: (415) 558-6332)
FAMILY-FRIENDLY HOUSING–Informational Presentation- The Planning Department is pleased to release our working paper “Housing for Families with Children.”  Staff will present the paper and discuss the department’s initiative to create a more family-friendly San Francisco.
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational
SPEAKERS:= Sue Exline – Staff Report
+ Supervisor Yee – Family-friendly housing introduction
+ Tom Radulovich – Walkable communities, Rooms down bulletins
+ Moe Jamil – Family friendly amenities
+ Georgia Schuttish – RH-2 density, amenitities
+ Fernando Mattis – Changes in unit mix
+ Peter Cohen – Accommodations for family friendly housing
+ Spike Khan – Monster homes, rear yards
+ Corey Smith – Family friendly housing
ACTION:None – Informational
14.2016-013035PCA(D. SANCHEZ: (415) 575-9082)
EXEMPTING CERTAIN LANDMARKS FROM NOV 2016 BALLOT MEASURE PROP X-Planning Code Amendment- Ordinance introduced by Supervisor Kim amending Planning Code Section 202.8, included in the November 8, 2016, General Election as Proposition X, to exempt certain designated historic landmarks from obtaining conditional use authorization to remove certain Production, Distribution, and Repair, Institutional Community, and Arts Activities Uses, and providing replace space for such uses; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation of Approval
(Continued from Regular Meeting of December 8, 2016)
SPEAKERS:= Diego Sanchez – Staff Report
-Spike Khan – Pussy hat – against benefiting rich people
-Rick Hall – Opposed
-Gladys Garcia – Opposed
-Marie Sorenson – Keep PDR
-Peter Papadapolous – Legislation concerns
= Fernando Martis – What is the value?
-Scott Weaver – Inappropriate location
+ Andrew Junius
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
AYES:Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong
RESOLUTION:19837
15.2012.0726PCA(R. SCHUETT: (415) 575-9030)
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM-Amendments to the Planning Commission Standardsfor the Transportation Demand Management Program (TDM Program Standards). The TDM Program Standards establish the specific requirements necessary for compliance with the TDM Ordinance. The Planning Commission adopted the TDM Program Standards and recommended approval of the TDM Ordinance on August 4, 2016.Based on comments received since that time and associated review, staff recommends that the Planning Commission adopt amendments to the TDM Program Standards.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt Amendments
SPEAKERS:+ Yoyo Chan, Aide to Supervisor Cohen – Opening remarks
= Wade Wietgrefe – Staff report
= Kathy Delucca – Amendments to the memo
+ Eli Sadler – Light electric vehicles
+ John Winston – Pedestrian elements
= Tom Radulovich – TSP
+ Matt Field – Support
+ Corey Smith – Parking
+ Speaker –
+ Peter Cohen – On-site affordable housing
ACTION:Adopted a Resolution Amending the Standards and directed staff to consider standards for walkability
AYES:Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong
RESOLUTION:19838
16.2015-015152CUA(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
1076 HOWARD STREET-located on the north side of Howard Street between 7th and Russ Streets, Lot 026 in Assessor’s Block 3726 (District 6) - Request forConditional Use Authorization, under Planning Code Sections 303, 803.9(b), 813.48, and 840.65, to permit office use in a qualified historic property and allow a change in use from PDR to office for 14,643 square feet within an existing two-story former warehouse. The subject property was determined to be individually-eligible for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources. The project is scheduled for review by the Historic Preservation Commission on January 18, 2017. The subject property is located in the RED (Residential Enclave) & MUG (Mixed-Use General) Zoning Districts and 45-X & 85-X Height and Bulk Districts. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Rich Sucre – Staff Report
+ Steve Vettel – Project presentation
+ Jay Turnbull – Design presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Richards, Hillis, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
MOTION:19839
17.2016-000790CUA(J. SPEIRS: (415) 575-9106
5118-5122 3RDSTREET-located on the west side of 3rd Street between Bay View Street and Shafter Avenue, Lot 005A in Assessor’s Block 5358 (District 10) - Request forConditional Use Authorization, under Planning Code Sections 303, 317, and 712.96, to demolish a three-story mixed-use building with one existing dwelling unit, and to construct a new four-story, 40-ft tall, mixed-use building with six dwelling units and approximately 763 square feet of ground floor retail use within a NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate Scale) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Jeff Speirs – Staff Report
+ Jeremy Schawb – Project presentation
= Terry Feely – Proposed modifications
+ Rich Gotti – Support
+ Speaker - Support
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel,Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Melgar
MOTION:19840
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
18.2016-003327DRP(C. MAY: (415) 575-9087)
1126 IRVING STREET- north side of Irving Street between 12th and Funston Avenues; Lot 021 in Assessor’s Block 1738 (District 5) -Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2016.03.07.1309, proposing to raise the existing two-and-a-half-story building containing two dwelling units such that the upper two floors become the new 3rdand 4thfloors above two new stories below and to construct front and rear horizontal additions and a new 5thfloor vertical addition resulting in a 3-unit mixed-use building with commercial use on the ground floor within the Inner Sunset Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD), and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis: Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:= Christopher May – Staff Report
-Patrick Morris – DR presentation
-Allan Chomers – Inadequate parking
+ Craig Dawson – Project presentation
+ Jonathan Perlman – Design presentation
ACTION:Did not Take DR, Approved as Proposed
AYES:Richards, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Melgar
DRA No:0498
19.2015-015904DRP(C. MAY: (415) 575-9087)
1825 WEBSTER STREET- southwest corner of Webster and Wilmot Streets; Lot 060 in Assessor’s Block 0660 (District 5) -Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2015.11.12.2215, proposing the construction of a three-story horizontal addition at the rear, three- and four-story horizontal additions on the north side, and a two-story vertical addition to the two-story single-family house within a RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis: Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve as Amended
(Continued from Regular Meeting of December 8, 2016)
SPEAKERS:= David Lindsay – Staff Report
+ Patrick – Flynn – Project presentation
+ Stephen Sutro – Design presentation
ACTION:Did not Take DR, Approved as Proposed
AYES:Richards, Hillis, Koppel, Moore
NAYES:Johnson
ABSENT:Fong, Melgar
DRA No:0499
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
Adjournment – 6:44 P.m.
ADOPTED: February 2, 2017
You have reached the archived site of the San Francisco Planning DepartmentThis site is no longer active as of Feb 18, 2019For the most up-to-date news and informationVisit our current site
City and County of San Francisco