This website offers functionality that requires JavaScript. To easily turn ON JavaScript you can follow the instructions provided on the following websites:Enable JavaScriptandWikiHow
SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, June 22, 2017
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
COMMISSIONER ABSENT:Johnson
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT HILLIS AT 12:10 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Michael Christensen, Audrey Butkus, Rich Sucre, Chelsea Fordham, Christopher May, David Weissglass,and Jonas P. Ionin – Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1a.2012.1410X(N. KWIATKOWSKA: (415) 575-9185)
77-85 FEDERAL STREET- southeast side, bounded by Federal, 2ndand De Boom Streets; Lot 444 in Assessor's Block 3774 (District 6) - Request forLarge Project Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Section 329, to demolish the two existing two-story office buildings and construct a new five-story-over-basement, 65-foot tall commercial building with up to 22,266 square feet of basement and ground floor commercial (gym) space, up to 49,804 square feet of office space and up to 25 parking spaces in the basement level, in the South End Landmark District, MUO (Mixed Use-Office) Zoning District, and 65-X Height and Bulk District. New construction within the South End Landmark District is subject to Historic Preservation Commission Approval under Case No. 2012.1410A.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
(Proposed for Continuance to August 24, 2017)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to September 14, 2017
AYES:Hillis, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
NAYES:Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
1b.2012.1410B(N.KWIATKOWSKA: (415) 575-9185)
77-85 FEDERAL STREET- southeast side, bounded by Federal, 2ndand De Boom Streets; Lot 444 in Assessor’s Block 3774 (District 6) - Request for anOffice Development Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 321, 322, and 842.66, to authorize 49,804 square feet of office use from the Office Development Annual Limit.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve
(Proposed for Continuance to August 24, 2017)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to September 14, 2017
AYES:Hillis, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
NAYES:Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
2.2013.1872ENX(D. SIROIS: (415) 575-8714)
768 HARRISON STREET- north side between Lapu Lapu Street & 4thStreet with frontage on Rizal Street; Lots 033 & 162 in Assessor’s Block 3751 (District 6)- Request for aLarge Project Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Section 329 to allow the demolition of a  3,090 square foot  two-story, industrial building (automotive service), to merge lots 330 & 162 and to construct an 83-foot-tall, eight-story over basement, mixed-use building approximately 34,340 square feet in size. The proposed building would include 5,160 square feet of office space in the basement and on the on the ground floor facing Rizal Street and 24 residential units above.The proposed project includes 25 Class I bicycle spaces and three Class II bicycle spaces.The project also includes 1,920 square feet of common open space including a 1,300-square-foot rear yard at the second-floor level and a 620-square-foot deck at the roof level. The project is seeking exceptions from certain Planning Code requirements including: permitted obstructions over street (Planning Code Section 136) and dwelling unit mix (Planning Code Section 207.6).This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary recommendation: Pending
(Proposed for Continuance to August 31, 2017)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to August 31, 2017
AYES:Hillis, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
NAYES:Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3a.2014-001457CUA(M. CHRISTENSEN: (415) 575-8742)
65 CAPP STREET- northeast corner of Capp Street and Adair Street, Lot 041 in Assessor’s Block 3553 (District 9) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 231, 303, 209.4, 317, and 710.48, proposing to legalize an existing entertainment use on the ground floor of the existing  single-family dwelling. The project includes the merger/conversion of a portion of the existing dwelling unit to create a ground floor theater and live performance space. The project is located within the Residential Transit Oriented – Mission (RTO-M) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of June 1, 2017)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
MOTION:19946
3b.2014-001457VAR(M. CHRISTENSEN: (415) 575-8742)
65 CAPP STREET- northeast corner of Capp Street and Adair Street, Lot 041 in Assessor’s Block 3553 (District 9) - Request forVariancefrom Planning Code requirements for street frontage transparency (Planning Code Section 145.1) to legalize an existing entertainment use on the ground floor of the existing  single-family dwelling. The project is located within the Residential Transit Oriented – Mission (RTO-M) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of June 1, 2017)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:ZA indicated an intent to Grant
4.2017-004678PCA(A. BUTKUS: (415) 575-9129)
GROSS FLOOR AREA-Planning Code Amendmentto revise the definition of Gross Floor Area to delete the reference to accessory buildings, exempt required car-share spaces, remove redundant off-street loading provisions, and modify provisions regarding accessory and non-accessory parking; and making environmental findings and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of the Planning Code, Section 101.1, and public necessity, convenience, and welfare findings pursuant to Planning Code, Section 302.
Preliminary Recommendation: Initiate and Schedule for Adoption on or After July 13, 2017
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Initiated and scheduled a hearing on or after July 13, 2017
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
MOTION:19947
5.2017-003521PCA(A. BUTKUS: (415) 575-9129)
ARTICLE 8 CORRECTIONS-Planning Code Amendmentto correct typographical errors, clarify nighttime entertainment restrictions, and update inclusionary affordable housing requirements; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1, and making findings as required by Planning Code Section 302.
Preliminary Recommendation: Initiate and Schedule for Adoption on or After July 13, 2017
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Initiated and scheduled a hearing on or after July 13, 2017
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
MOTION:19948
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
6.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for June 8, 2017
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted as Amended
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
7.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Richards:
A couple of items, three items actually, first one pertains -- I was quoted in this article in the Chronicle this morning about medical cannabis dispensaries, and want just to clarify my point, I said doubling the numbers of MCDs was insane, in context it was. We've approved only 38 since 2005, yet in the last four or several months there is 25 additional applications, that‘s what is insane is the asymptoticrise in applications, not that there is no need for additional MCDs. Secondly, this week we had on our calendar a couple of weeks ago or maybe couple of months ago, I can’t remember, it kind of melts together, we approved Bonobos it was a formula retail use, I believed it was on Union Street, and interesting enough this week Walmart bought Bonobos. So, we actually ended up approving a Walmart subsidiary. I'm appreciative of the fact that we have Walmart wanted to put their name on the Bonobos site because of the densification of the Walmarts around the world, they have to come back for another CU, but it’s interesting we have to be careful when we do these kind of things, because retail is really changing, and we can see with Amazon’s buying Whole Foods and Walmart buying Bonobos in the same week. Speaking of retail, it is interesting we have the large Laurel Heights project on our agenda and it is interesting enough from yesterday’s New York Times, it talks about repurposing or malls and parking. It is in Austin, Texas when they talked about putting housing there, putting multi uses where parking lot used to be. It is a really interesting article, because it is really trying to figure out how to repurpose these relics that we have from the 60s, 70s and 80s. It is an interesting article if you haven’t read it, about how – at least Austin, Texas is trying to figure out what to do with the white elephants.
Commissioner Moore:
Not to engage in conversation but I like to suggest commissioner vice President Richards that you view a presentation by APA on repurposing malls. There is some very, very innovate approaches that have been developed. They are mostly in suburban or slightly less urban environments than we live in, but some of the basic planning ideas, which go into repurposing larger sites, are quite exemplary and I think it will be worth looking at for all of us.
D.DEPARTMENT MATTERS
8.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Good afternoon Commissioners, I just want to make one announcement. Yesterday and the day before we held the first large task force meeting on the ConnectSF Program, which is our transportation visioning program, we had, I think between 80 and 90 of the task force members come, was day and a half event. It was very successful, we had very good input, very creative and interesting ideas have come forward. We will now be moving into a series of public hearings and take this particular approach on the road to several locations, including to some of the neighborhoods that were underrepresented in yesterday’s meeting, which we will be looking at more carefully. And then the second large task force meeting will occur in September. The goal is to have the kind of overall vision, the transportation vision established by the end of the year and we still believe we can stay on schedule to meet that goal. I just wanted to update you on that, and offer any information if you would like on the program as we move forward.
9.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
Land Use Committee:
·161351 Planning Code - Inclusionary Affordable Housing Fee and Dwelling Unit Mix Requirements. Sponsors: Breed; Kim, Peskin, Safai and Tang. Staff: Rodgers/Bintliff.
This week at the land use committee, the Ordinance that would change the Inclusionary Requirements was back on the Committee’s agenda. The Planning Commission last considered the ordinance on June 15, 2017. At that time you made recommendations on six new features, which were not previously considered by the Commission. These were the so-called “material modifications”.
This week the Committee made additional modifications, including responses to the Commission’s requests.  Among the more significant amendments were the changes recommended by the Planning Commission related to 1) grandfathering; 2) rounding of requirements; 3) the use of a more accurate map for analyzing the pricing of units; and 4) regulating unit size by the State’s TCAC standards, with the clarification that 300sf would be the min. req. for studios.
This commission will be interested to learn that the Committee made another “material modification” that will require another hearing by this Commission. The new requirement would be that: projects with 10 or more dwelling units would have to have no more than 30% of the units as studio units.
This maximum cap on studio units is in addition to the requirement that at least 25% of the total units shall be at least two bedroom units and at least 10% of the total units shall be at least three bedroom units.  This item has been schedule for your consideration on July 6. After your action, the BOS will be able to act on this last component of the Consensus ordinance.
In the meantime, the BOS has duplicated the file and will consider the other remaining portions at the next meeting of the full board of supervisors on June 27.
Budget and Finance Committee (Wednesday)
·170093 Planning Code - Establish Fee for Monitoring of Student Housing - Mayor’s Office of Housing and Community Development. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: D. Sanchez.
This Wednesday, the Budget and Finance Committee heard the Mayor’s ordinance that amends the Planning Code to establish a housing monitoring fee. This fee will be paid to the Mayor’s Office on Housing by the operators of the Student Housing developments.  Commissioners, you heard this item on April 27, 2017 where you voted to recommend approval with modifications of the ordinance to the Full Board.  Modifications included clarifying 1) that the Monitoring Fee is charged on a per Student Housing project basis; 2) that the Fee is due on December 31 of each year; and 3) that MOH is to publish the indexed fee on its website every July 1.
At the Budget and Finance Committee there was no public comment and the Committee members did not engage in a discussion of the Ordinance.  The Committee moved unanimously to recommend the Ordinance to the Full BOS.
Full Board:
·170203 Planning Code - Article 7 Reorganization; Technical and Other Amendments. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr. Second Read
·170204 Planning Code - Deletion of Duplicate Definitions and Outdated Article 7 Zoning Control Tables. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr. Second Read,
And finally at the Full Board this week, the Article 7 Ordinance passed its second read and is on its way to the Mayor’s office for his signature.
Introductions:
·No new introductions this week.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals metlast night after a couple of weeks of rest, and heard two ofappeals – a couple of appeals related to cases that you heard as discretionary reviews lastsummer. The first was an appeal of the project at 60 Russell. You had taken DR on this project and put some fairly modest conditions. The permit wasappealed by the permit holder on the issued permit, somewhat unusual, President Honda did noted in his 5 years on theBoard hadn't seen another permitholder appeal their own issued permit, but the Board unanimously upheld the conditions that were impose by this Commission. The second item was, actually four appeals related to the project at 40 Bernal Heights Boulevard. This was a subdivision; there were three lots on Powhatan and one on Bernal Heights Boulevard. Most of the appeal issued centered around sidewalk widths and front setbacks of the property. There were no requirement impose by SDAT our Sidewalks Design Advisory Team. There were no requirements for a wider than eight foot sidewalk. The neighbors had requested that the sidewalk be at least 10 feet wide. Wasn’t going to be necessarily the best option there given that there would be kind of a mid-block bulb out, would’ve probably resulted inthe removal all the parking in front of those properties, so SDAT did not recommend anything wider than the eight feet, which is actually wider that the existing sidewalk, which is about six feet, other issued related to design, the Board felt that all the Commission’s conditions were appropriate, and had the effect of meeting the Bernal Heights – East Slope Bernal Heights guidelines.Actually, Vice President Fong was on the Planning Commission at the time that the East Slope guidelines were adopted and he felt that they were in compliance with the intent of those guidelines.So, they unanimously upheld the Commission’s decision as well.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Good afternoon Commissioner, Tim Frye, Department staff, here to share with you a few items from yesterday’s Historic Preservation Commission hearing. First item on the Commission’s agenda was the initiation of landmark designationof the Peace Pagoda and Plaza in the Japantown neighborhood. The designation was unanimously initiated by the Commission members of the Japantown Task Force and the community came to voice their support and appreciation for the close collaboration between the Department, the Commission and Japantown Task Force, on developing the designation report. The Recreation and Park Commission members – Commission members were there to answer questions, however, there were no questions from the Commission. So, from what we can hear, Rec/Park is very supportive of the initiation moving forward and as we know Supervisor Breed and Rec/Park Department are seekingfunding to rehabilitate the plaza in the very near future. There were some comments around the character defining features that were identified in the plaza and the Department noted that those features has been defined very broadly to allow for greater flexibility in improving the plaza as a focal point to Japantown community, Buchanan Mall and the Cherry Blossom Festival. The second item I wanted to bring to your attention, which you might have seen along Market Street is the restoration or reconstruction of the historic cornice at 1075 Market. The building was constructed in 1903, survived earthquake and fire, and now is a location or the soon to be location of Yotel, directly across from the Renoir Hotel, which is a tax credit project.This Commission approved the conditional use authorization to convert this office building into a tourist hotel and HPC approved the Major Permit to Alter for the exterior restoration. One of the conditions of the approval added by this commission and the HPC was the reconstruction of the terracotta cornice that have been removed in the 1940s or 50s. The replacement terracotta cornice will actually be constructed as a GFRC (Glass Fiber Reinforced Concrete). There was a mockup installed over the past week or couple weeks. The Commissioners individually went to look at the mockup, and the Commission and the Department had very small refinements to the design to more closely match the historic condition, seeing in the historic photographs that are on file of the property. The manufacturer and the Page & Turnbull, the Historic Consultants on the project, concurred with those minors refinements that need to be made, and basically blessed the fabrication of the cornice, so that project may proceed forward. So, we hope to have a completed project by the end of this year. That concludes my comments, unless you have any questions.
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:David Cincotta – Portside garage compliance and enforcement issues
Janet Fowler – DR Continuance procedures
Georgia Schuttish – 317(a)(7)
John Cornwell – Portside garage
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
10.2014-001272GPA(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
PIER 70 MIXED-USE PROJECT- located east of Illinois Street between 20thand 22ndStreet; Assessor’s Block 4052 Lot 001; Block 4110 Lots 001 and 008A; Block 4111 Lot 004; and Block 4120 Lot 002 (District 10) –General Plan Amendmentto various Maps and Figures (including the Urban Design Element) in association the Pier 70 Mixed-Use Project. The Pier 70 Mixed-Use Project would rezone the entire 35-acre project site (including the 28-acre site and the Illinois Parcels) and establish land use controls for the project site through adoption of the Pier 70 Special Use District (SUD), and incorporation of design standards and guidelines in a proposed Pier 70 Design for Development document. Depending on the uses proposed, the Project would include between 1,645 to 3,025 residential units, a maximum of 1,102,250 to 2,262,350 gross square feet (gsf) of commercial-office use, and a maximum of 494,100 to 518,700 gsf of retail-light industrial-arts use. The Project also includes construction of transportation and circulation improvements, new and upgraded utilities and infrastructure, geotechnical andshoreline improvements, between 3,215 to 3,345 off-street parking spaces in proposed buildings and district parking structures, and nine acres of publicly-owned open space. New buildings would range in height from 50 to 90 feet, consistent with Proposition F which was passed by San Francisco voters in November 2014.
Preliminary Recommendation: Initiate and Schedule for Adoption on or After July 20, 2017
SPEAKERS:= Rich Sucre – Staff Report
ACTION:Initiated and scheduled a hearing on or after July 20, 2017
AYES:Hillis, Fong, Koppel, Melgar
ABSENT:Johnson, Moore, Richards
MOTION:19949
11a.2017-003880PCA(A. BUTKUS: (415) 575-9129)
CORONA HEIGHTS LARGE RESIDENCE SPECIAL USE DISTRICT [BF 170296]-Planning Code Amendmentcreating the Corona Heights Large Residence Special Use District (the area within a perimeter established by Market Street, Clayton Street, Ashbury Street, Clifford Terrace, Roosevelt Way, Museum Way, the eastern property line of Assessor's Parcel No. 2620, Lot No. 063, the eastern property line of Assessor's Parcel No. 2619, Lot No. 001A, and Douglass Street; and all additional parcels fronting States Street), to promote and enhance neighborhood character and affordability by requiring Conditional Use authorization for large residential developments in the district; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and adopting findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, Section 302.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
(Continued from Regular Meeting of June 8, 2017)
SPEAKERS:= Audrey Butkus – Staff Report
+ Frederick Olen – Support
-Ronny – Issues and consideration
+ Raul Leon – Support, unclear
-Speaker – Family expansion restriction
+ Chris Sparks – Support
-Laura Clark – Small doesn’t near cheap
+ Gary Weiss – Support
= Speaker – Consideration
+ Ozzie Rohm – Support
+ Paul Allan – Support
+ Dr. Jennifer Corbin – Live with less
+ Bill Holtzman – Support
= Toby Morris – Questions
= Raquel Mellow –
+ Mitsy Palmer – Support
+ Suzie Tolliner – Not an affordability issue
-Sonja Transs – Density and development limitation
+ Georgia Schuttish – RET affordability
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval with Staff modifications as amended: Consideration for a distinction between zoning and lot sizes for allowable square footage.
AYES:Hillis, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
RECUSED:Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
RESOLUTION:19950
11b.2017-003880MAP(A. BUTKUS: (415) 575-9129)
CORONA HEIGHTS LARGE RESIDENCE SPECIAL USE DISTRICT [BF 170296]-Zoning Map Amendmentto Sectional Maps SU06 and SU07 creating the Corona Heights Large Residence Special Use District (the area within a perimeter established by Market Street, Clayton Street, Ashbury Street, Clifford Terrace, Roosevelt Way, Museum Way, the eastern property line of Assessor's Parcel No. 2620, Lot No. 063, the eastern property line of Assessor's Parcel No. 2619, Lot No. 001A, and Douglass Street; and all additional parcels fronting States Street), to promote and enhance neighborhood character and affordability by requiring Conditional Use authorization for large residential developments in the district; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and adopting findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, Section 302.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
(Continued from Regular Meeting of June 8, 2017)
SPEAKERS:Same as Item 11a.
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval
AYES:Hillis, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
RECUSED:Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
RESOLUTION:19950
12.2015-004827ENV(C. FORDHAM: (415) 575-9071)
ALAMEDA CREEK RECAPTURE PROJECT-Certification of the Final Environmental Impact Report.The proposed project is located in Alameda County, within the Sunol Valley on watershed lands owned by the City and County of San Francisco and managed by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (SFPUC). The proposed project would recapture water that the SFPUC will release from the Calaveras Reservoir and bypass around the Alameda Creek Diversion Dam when the SFPUC implements instream flow schedules required for future operations of Calaveras Reservoir. Water would be pumped from an existing quarry pit in the Sunol Valley, which collects Alameda Creek water through subsurface seepage, to the SFPUC’s regional distribution system. No construction would occur in Alameda Creek.
Preliminary Recommendation: Certify the Final EIR
NOTE: The public hearing on the Draft EIR is closed. The public comment period for the Draft EIR ended on January 30, 2017. Public comment will be received when the item is called during the hearing. However, comments submitted may not be included in the Final EIR.
SPEAKERS:= Chelsea Fordham – Staff Report
+ Ellen Lewis – Water rights on Alameda Creek
-Robert Shaver - Inadequacies
ACTION:Certified
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Koppel
MOTION:19952
13.2015-002653CUA(E. JARDINES: (415) 575-9144)
1016 DE HARO STREET-west side of De Haro Street, between 22ndand 23rdStreets, Lot 004 in Assessor’s Block 4159 (District 10) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317 to demolish an existing vacant & unsound one-story-over-basement single-family dwelling with a rear accessory structure, and to construct a new four-story over-basement, 40 foot tall, two-family dwelling within a RH-2 (Residential – House, Two Family) District, 40-X Height and Bulk District. The proposed project provides a code-complying rear yard, three off-street parking spaces, and a 17 foot front setback at the 4thfloor. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of April 27, 2017)
SPEAKERS:+ Victor Marquez – Work with community
ACTION:Continued to September 14, 2017
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
14.2015-007917CUA(C. MAY: (415) 575-9087)
2675 GEARY BOULEVARD- southeast corner of Geary Boulevard and Masonic Avenue; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 1094 (District 2) - Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 121.1, 121.2, 270, 303 and 304, to permit the construction of horizontal additions to the existing 2-story “crow’s nest” retail building in Lot D, a new 2-story retail building in Lot F and a new retail building on the northeast corner of Masonic Avenue and O’Farrell Street in Lot A, within the City Center retail complex. The project also proposes to expand Lot B by constructing an elevated parking deck above Lot A.The Planned Unit Development (PUD) process would allow for a modification to the off-street parking requirements of Planning Code Section 151.The project is located within a NC-3 (Moderate-Scale Neighborhood-Commercial) District and 80-D & 40-X Height and Bulk Districts.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Chris May – Staff Report
+ Mark Loper – Project presentation
+ Tobin White – Design presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
MOTION:19951
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
15.2016-016229DRP(D. WEISSGLASS: (415) 575-9177)
122 AVILA STREET- east side of Avila Street between Capra Way and Alhambra Street; Lot 017 in Assessor’s Block 0464A (District 2) - Request forDiscretionary ReviewofBuilding Permit Application No. 2016.1122.3344 proposing a horizontal addition at the rear of a two-story single-family dwelling.The subject property is within a RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Staff Analysis: Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:= David Lindsay – Staff Report
-David Roseman – DR presentation, side setback
+ Andy Miller – Project presentation
+ Jay Sherlook – Design presentation
ACTION:Did NOT Take DR and Approved
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
DRA No:0536
16.2016-015049DRP(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
645-647 VALENCIA STREET- southeast corner of Valencia and Sycamore Streets; Lot 062 in Assessor’s Block 3576 (District 9) - Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2016.11.14.2504, proposing a change in use from bar (dba Elbo Room) to commercial/residential, façade alterations and a three-story vertical addition within the Valencia Street NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and 55-X Height and Bulk District. The proposed project would establish seven dwelling units with four off-street parking spaces and a 517 square feet ground floor commercial space.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Staff Analysis: Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:= Rich Sucre – Staff Report
-Dino Goosens-Larsens – DR presentation
+ Dennis Ring – Project introduction
+ Toby Morris – Project presentation
= Eric Cantu – Support
+ Zena Reese – Support
+ Rebecca Fernandez – Support
+ Speaker – Support, tree
+ Ray Vaughn – On behalf of Page Odell
+ David O’Connor – Support
-Adana Shibata - Rebuttal
ACTION:Took DR and Approved with conditions to:
1.Shift the top level toward Valencia Street five feet, as long as it meets Secretary of Interior standards; or if it does not
2.Remove the rear most five feet of the top level.
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar
NAYES:Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
DRA No:0537
17.2016-013942DRM(M. CHRISTENSEN: (415) 575-8742)
5 LELAND AVENUE-south side of Leland Avenue, between Bayshore Blvd and Desmond St; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 6249 (District 10) - Request is forMandatory Discretionary Reviewof an application for a change of use from retail to a Medical Cannabis Dispensary (MCD) at the ground story, within a NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial – Moderate Scale) Zoning District and 55-X Height and Bulk District. The MCD is proposed for on-site sales with no on-site cultivation or production. The associated Building Permit Application 2016.1214.4950 is for change of use and both interior and exterior alterations.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Staff Analysis: Full Analysis
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:+ Brandon Hallinan – Continuance request
= Wilber Morales – Notification
+ John DelaFlame -
ACTION:Continued to September 14, 2017
AYES:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
SPEAKERS:Speaker – 5 Leland Avenue
Adjournment – 4:29 p.M.
ADOPTED: jULY 6, 2017
You have reached the archived site of the San Francisco Planning DepartmentThis site is no longer active as of Feb 18, 2019For the most up-to-date news and informationVisit our current site
City and County of San Francisco