This website offers functionality that requires JavaScript. To easily turn ON JavaScript you can follow the instructions provided on the following websites:Enable JavaScriptandWikiHow
SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, March 16, 2017
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Hillis, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
COMMISSIONER ABSENT:Johnson
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT HILLIS AT 12:11 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Dan Sirois, Katie Campbell, Andrew Perry, Jacob Bintliff, Lily Langlois, Colin Clarke, Veronica Flores, Jeff Horn, Ella Samonsky, Kimberly Durandet,and
Jonas P. Ionin – Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1.2016-000814DRP(E. SAMONSKY: (415) 575-9112)
1058 MISSISSIPPI STREET-west side, approximately 150 feet north of the intersection with 25th Street, Lot 022 in Assessor’s Block 4224 (District 9) - Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No.No. 2015.1231.6217proposing new construction of a four-story, 3,360 square-foot, two-family residence on an existing vacant lot that includes two vehicle parking spaces, a roof deck and decks at the second, third and fourth floors within a RH-3 (Residential House, Three Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of February 16, 2017)
(Proposed for Continuance to April 27, 2017)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to April 27, 2017
AYES:Fong, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2016-006642CUA(C. CAMPBELL: (415) 575-8732)
423 10THAVENUE-locatedon the west side of 10thAvenue, between Geary Boulevard and Anza Street,Assessor’sBlock 1534, Lot 003 -Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 & 209.1 to allow the use of a Religious Institution (Richmond Torah Center-Chabad), within an existing single family dwelling structure in a Residential-House, Two-Family (RH-2) district and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
MOTION:19878
3.2016-011789DRM(A. PERRY: (415) 575-9017)
49 KEARNY STREET- west side of Kearny Street, between Post Street and Maiden Lane, Lot 002 in Assessor’s Block 0310 (District 3) - Request forMandatory Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2016.09.13.7583pursuant to Planning CodeSections 202.2(e)(1) and 210.2to establish a new Medical Cannabis Dispensary (MCD) with approximately 760 square feet of space, in an existing vacant retail space at the third floor of the subject property, within the C-3-O (Downtown Office) Zoning District and 80-130-F Height and Bulk District. The MCD would permit on-site sales of medical cannabis only, also including concentrates, edibles, and tinctures. The MCD would not permit on-site medication of medical cannabis (e.g. smoking, vaporizing, and consumption of medical cannabis edibles), nor would the MCD permit on-site cultivation of plants for harvesting medical product.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Staff Analysis: Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Andrew Perry – Staff Report
+ Terry Finch – Project presentation
+ Wyatt Lynn – Response to questions
ACTION:After being pulled off of Consent, Approved with Conditions as amended to include security guards posted on the third floor and lobby area
AYES:Richards, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson, Hillis
DRA No:0513
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
4.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for March 2, 2017
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:Fong, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
5.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
I'd like to bring to the Director’s attention something that has definitely worth discussing in his participation in the regional discussion of how to grow the Bay Area. About a week and a half ago there was a 1.2 acre site in front of the Mill Valley Planning Commission and that particular item was suggesting 20 dwelling units on a 1.2 acres site. Today we are looking at 0.6 acres site with 127 dwelling units, 1.2-acres for 20 dwelling units today. 0.6 acres for 127 dwelling units. I'm asking about the regional equity, and I'll give you the article because I think it is worth discussing of who is participating and stepping to the line and who are the ones who are stragglers? Thank you.
Commissioner Richards:
I read that there was a court case at the Supreme Court decided in San Jose on personal electronic devices, and we got a very, very large all-encompassing records request recently and I would ask that we have a closed session with the City Attorney on exactly the ins and outs of this ruling and what that means for us and whether or not we need to -- get issue cell phones by the City, et cetera nd I don't know if I other commissioners are concerned about that as well, and I am requesting a closed session with the City Attorney.
Commissioner Moore:
I ran across the e-mail, I did my sunshine training yesterday, that really give us really an hour worth of very insightful explanation of what to do and not to do. I couldn’t recall anything which gave me instructions relative to what Commissioner Richards is just saying, so I would strongly support that we consider such a session.
Commissioner Hillis:
We'll put that on the calendar.
6.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Thank you Jonas and good afternoon, Commissioners, two announcements today, you may recall today was a place holder; we had a place holder on today's calendar initially for a discussion on the progress report on the Academy of Art action. The reason that we did not include this in today's calendar is that we're still working through some issues.The Academy’s DA application is so far not fully complete, although we're making progress in that regard. There were several items that we have asked them to submit to support their application for the development agreement, some of those are in progress and are being met and some of those are still in progress. So, we are hoping that that will be resolved soon, so that we can move on with the next round the discussions, and move into more detail on the development agreement. The next hearing that we have with you on our calendar regarding AAU is April 27th. Secondly, I just -- an announcement of an event coming up that we're co-hosting on this Saturday the 18th, San Francisco Planning and the San Francisco Public Works Department are hosting Arbor Day Eco Fair, which is an event at Warm Water Cove Park from 9 to noon. It is open to the public with activities and informational booths, booths about urban tree care and environmental sustainability. We will be also celebrating at the fair Chloe Wyland, who is a San Francisco resident, who will get a tree planted in her name, as a winner of how many trees contest, which is the City first citywide streets census, which took place a few months ago. This is a collaborate effort between Public Works and the Planning Department. The program identified the exact locations, species and current condition of every street tree in the City. In addition to identifying potential vacate sites for future street tree plantings, and in total there are almost 125,000 trees that were surveyed throughout the City. We thank Public Works for this collaborate effort. It was an important effort for the City and then again there is a free fair from 9 to 12 on Saturday at the Warm Water Cove Park. Thank you.
7.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
Land Use Committee:
·5-year Monitoring Reports for the Eastern Neighborhoods.Staffpresented this report covering 2011-2016 to the Planning Commission last year. Supervisor Cohen called the hearing asking for the Department to address community concerns that the pacing of development. Public comment was almost all from Potrero Hill residents who state that development has exceeded the pace studied by the EIR. The Department described our analysis that did not bare out this claim.This item was informational only.
·HOME-SF aka AHBP.Sup. Katy Tang amended the AHBP (Affordable Housing Bonus Program) legislation to advance the Local Affordable Housing Bonus Program, now renamed ‘HOME-SF’. The program incentivizes private developers to provide 30% on-site affordable housing by offering up to two additional floors and other zoning incentives. The Commission forwarded this legislation to the Board last year. The BOS did adopt a part of the bonus for 100% Affordable Projects in 2016, while continuing the rest of the program.This week in committee, Supervisor Tang proposed the following amendments which were unanimously approved by the Committee:
·renaming the “Local Affordable Housing Bonus” program as the “HOME-SF” program;
·adjusting income levels for BMR units to ensure equal distribution of low, moderate, and middle income units;
·adding family-friendly amenities;
·adding enhanced protections for existing commercial tenants; and
·adding other clarifying verbiage
During the hearing Supe. Peskin said it is time to revisit the program, especially given changing state law around density bonuses. He also stated that this could be a great complement to ADUs and other housing tools, while expressing concern about “density equity”. Supe. Tang described how th program provides density equity as it will incentivize housing on the West Side (including her district) where very little development happens. Public comment was overwhelmingly supportive of the legislation, new housing, and keeping middle-income families in San Francisco. The head of the MPNA offered a letter with a number of concerns, primarily around NCDs and potential impact to small businesses, but said he was generally supportive of the concept.After the amendments were made, the item was continued to the call of the Chair.
First on the Land Use agenda was Supervisor Kim’s ordinance to allow the InterContinental to pay an in lieu fee for its opens space requirement. This item was continued to March 20, 2017 at the Supervisor’s request.
Full Board:
The main event for planning this week was a “Committee of the Whole” on our Family-Friendly Housing Report. This gave our Department the privilege of addressing the whole board & public at an informational hearing—which has not occurred in my 18 yrs at the department.Commissioners, you heard a presentation of this report & design guidelines on January 31 of this year.
Our Director and staff provided a review of the report.This is demographics, unit mix, characteristics of quality child-friendly housing, and solutions for housing families.Board members were appreciative of the work. The BOS generally acknowledged the complexity of the issues, particularly around a shared definition of middle income. Supervisor Ronen expressed disappointment that the report did not include more specific recommendations to address housing affordability. She also questioned what the City can do to improve the pace of development. Supervisor Peskin objected to a focus on housing middle income when that segment of the population is decreasing. Supervisor Kim stated that we need to focus on building for middle income because that population is decreasing due to lack of affordable housing. Supervisor Tang was particularly interested in how family-friendly amenities could and are being integrated into the Home SF program. Supervisor Safai was interested in design, and asked Director Rahaim about the lack of smaller multi-unit new developments that were discussed as part of the discussion of missing middle. Director Rahaim responded that economics and RH-1 and RH-2 zoning limits the kind of smaller multi-unit buildings and suggested that strategic rezoning of RH-1 and RH-2 might encourage this scale of development. Supervisor Fewer was interested in allowing more senior housing in the Richmond for seniors currently living in larger homes who can no longer maintain them or want to move out, which would make 3+ bedroom homes available to families with younger children. She wanted to see data on residents by unit size, income, and race. Supervisor Kim is eager to move forward with recommendations for amenities, to which Director Rahaim responded that we need to better understand the economic impact of requiring these amenities. She emphasized that having 72% of parcels zoned RH-1 and RH-2 necessitates a conversation about density.
Public comments were largely in support of the report’s recommendations. Comments focused on how housing costs are straining families. Several mothers, part of Parent Voices, spoke about the struggles of single mothers and those looking to escape domestic violence. Staff from Holy Family Day Home, San Francisco’s oldest early education center, spoke of how housing costs push their families into long commutes and stress their young students, and that 80% of their teachers commute into San Francisco. A volunteer with Family Friendly Oakland commended the City for taking on this work and setting an example.
The next steps proposed by the Department include producing the Design Resource Guide, Starting the work on our “Existing Housing Study” and understanding the financial implications of the proposed amenities to be included in our Design Resource Guide.
FIRST READING
·170028 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Calle 24 Special Use District. Sponsors: Mayor; Ronen. Staff: D. Sanchez.The Ordinance proposes to (1) establish eating and drinking use concentration controls (2) require CU for a Medical Service Use, the merging of ground floor commercial storefronts into one larger than 800 sq. ft. and for replacing a Legacy Business and (3) to require any use needing a CU to meet at least 4 of the 6 stated purposes for establishing the SUD.  Commissioners you approved this Ordinance with a modification on February 9, 2017.  This week the Board unanimously approved the Ordinance on first reading.
·This week the BOS approved appointments to the Bicycle Advisory Committee, one of which also happens to be a department staffer.Ann Brask was appointed to a 2 year term.
FINALLY APPROVED.
·170002 General Plan Amendment - Commerce and Industry Element; Guidelines for Eating and Drinking Establishments. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Starr.
Next on the Land Use agenda was the General Plan Amendment that would remove specific numeric concentrations in the General Plan. Commissioners, you heard this item on December 2, 2016 and voted to recommend approval. This week the BOS approved the amendment on Final Reading, with a 8-3 vote[1].
·170003 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Upper Market Street Districts.Sponsor: Sheehy. Staff: Starr. Passed Final Read
Introductions:
So far, no introductions have shown up in the system.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Good afternoon Commissioners, Tim Frye, Department Staff, here to share with you a few items from yesterday’s Historic Preservation Commission hearing. The Architectural Review Committee of the HPC met before the hearing to review the design of two items one was for 88 Broadway. This is an empty parcel in the northeast waterfront landmark district. The proposal is to construct 130 thirty affordable dwelling units and 54 affordable housing units for senior housing. The ARC had a number of design comments which -- but a good dialogue with the architects and the project team. That item will likely have to go before the ARC before its full – before approval at the full Commission. The ARC also reviewed a proposed public art installation at the McAllister BRT station. There was some concerns over the design and the location of the art installation and after a short presentation by the Arts Commission, the ARC recommended that the Arts Commission look either for a new location for the art installation particularly at Van Ness and Market, rather than directly at in front of the Veterans Building station or work with the artists to redesign something that appeared a little more comparable with the Civic Center and Landmark District and City Hall. Finally, one item just to share with you from the HPC hearing, on the overhead, is the Commission approved or initiated the landmark designation for 2731 or 2735 Folsom Street, the Gaughran House, designed by ArchitectJames Francis Dunnin 1900, an Irish Architect and builder in San Francisco. The owner initiated the landmark designation or requested the HPC initiated which the Commission agreed to. It appears that the owner is interested in applying for the Mills Act program in the following year. That concludes my comments unless you have any questions.
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:Anastasia Yovnovapolus – Family housing
Sharon Shermer-Zimmer – Carl Jensen
Laura Clark – Zoning and Segregation
Fernando Martis – Zoning and Segregation
Dino Adelfio – Diversity, community engagement
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
8.2017-001061PCA(J. BINTLIFF: (415) 575-9170)
INCLUSIONARY AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM ORDINANCES- The Planning Commission will hear anInformational Presentationabout two proposed Ordinances that would amend the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Program. The Commission will make recommendations to the Board of Supervisors on the two Ordinances at a later date, tentatively set for March 23, 2017.
a.Planning Code Amendment titled, “lnclusionary Affordable Housing Fee and Requirements” [Board File No. 161351v2]. This proposed Ordinance would amend the Planning Code to revise the amount of the lnclusionary Affordable Housing Fee and the On-Site and Off-Site Affordable Housing Alternatives and other lnclusionary Housing requirements; adding reporting requirements for density bonus projects; affirming the Planning Department's determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings under Planning Code, Section 302; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1.
b.Planning Code Amendment titled, “Inclusionary Affordable Housing Fee and Dwelling Unit Mix Requirements” [Board File No. pending].This proposed Ordinance would amend the Planning Code to revise the amount of the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Fee and the On-Site and Off-Site Affordable Housing Alternatives and other Inclusionary Housing requirements; to require minimum dwelling unit mix in all residential districts; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings under Planning Code Section 302; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 9, 2017)
SPEAKERS:= AnMarie Rodgers – Staff Report
+ Supervisor Safai – Working family-housing
+ Board President Breed – Affordable housing income levels
+ Supervisor Kim – Inclusionary housing for all
+ Supervisor Peskin – Inclusionary housing
= Olson Lee – Housing presentation
= Sarah Dennis-Phillips – Inclusionary housing context
= Jason Bintliff – Staff Report
-Speaker – Objection to manipulative methods, discriminatory practices
+ Mark Leasy – Carpenter’s Union, Supervisor Safai, Breed proposal support
= Peter Cohen – Affordable housing needs
= Loraine Petty – Inclusionary housing goals, more low income housing
= Rodney Hampton Jr. – Fair and inclusive housing policy
= Gail Hampton – Fair housing
+ Speaker – Supervisors Safai, Breed and Tsang
= David George – Affordable housing
-Ken Fujoka – A step backwards
= Joanne Madonna – Artist housing
= Speaker – Income thresholds
+ Fernando Marks – Entire workforce
+ Joseph Smooth – Increase the inclusionary percentage
+ Betty Trainer – Low income seniors
+ Gloria Espinosa – It’s difficult to work only to pay rent, support for Supervisor Safai and Breed’s proposal
= Speaker – Grey area to qualify for housing
-Speaker – Inclusionary housing
+ Jeffrey Torres – Do not qualify for low income housing. Supervisor Safai and Breed’s proposal
+ Tony Rodriguez – Missing middle class
= Sean Keigran – Projects w/25 units or less
= Ken Tray – United Educators of S.F.
= Alex Lansberg – More housing
+ Abrahim – Workforce housing
+ Nessar Savello – Workforce housing
+Teresa Flandry – Longercommute times. Peskin/Kim’s proposal
= Corey Smith – More housing
+ Laura Clark – Peanuts
+ Brad Chapton – Middle class and lower class
+ Ahmad Abuzai – More housing
+ Olga Miranda – Not too far apart, working class housing
+ Michael Terriot – Housing
+ Gina Davis – Affordable housing
+ Angela – Support for Kim/Peskin’s proposal
= Speaker – Inclusionary housing
+ Ozzie Rohn – Support for Supervisors Kim/Peskin’s proposal
+ Anastasia Yovanopolous – Inclusionary housing
+ Jesse Fernandez – Peskin/Kim’s legislation
+ Speaker – Affordable housing
= Peter Papadopolous – Not all neighborhoods are the same
-Speaker – Low income households
-T.J. – Low income households
-Kathy Burrick – Pitting income levels against each other
-Chris Durazo – Low income household issues
-Carolyn Calderone – Number of affordable housing applications
+ Evelyn Alvarro – Low income housing, support more units of affordable housing
+ Lordes Dobarganes – Right to a dignified home
+ Ana Alfaro – Do not reduce the number of units for low income housing
-Speaker – Deny both proposals
+ Mel Flores – Support for workforce housing
-Dairo Romero – Opposed to Supervisor Breed and Safai’s proposal
ACTION:None - Informational
3:00 p.m.
Items listed here may not be considered prior to the time indicated above. It is provided as a courtesy to limit unnecessary wait times. Generally, the Commission adheres to the order of the Agenda. Therefore, the following item(s) will be considered at or after the time indicated.
9.(C. ASBAGH: (415) 575-9165)
RETAIL TO OFFICE CONVERSIONS WITHIN UNION SQUARE- Informational Presentationproviding an overview of the findings of an Office of Economic and Workforce Development report related to retail to office conversions in Union Square (C-3-R, Downtown Retail Core Zoning District).
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational
SPEAKERS:= Claudine Asbagh – Staff Report
+ Lisa Pagan – OEWD presentation
+ Brian- OEWD presentation
+ Tom Tunney – 222 Sutter Street Project
+ Moe Jamile – Sacrifice world class retail destination for corporate greed
+ Sue Hestor – C-3-R needs to be protected as a retail district
ACTION:None - Informational
10.(L. LANGLOIS: (415) 575-9083)
MARKET STREET HUB PROJECT-InformationalPresentationon the Market Street Hub Project (“ the Hub”) including preliminary land use, urban form, public realm and public benefits recommendations. More information on the Market Street Hub Project can be found athttp://sf-planning.org/market-street-hub-project
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational
SPEAKERS:= Lily Langlois – Staff Report
+ Moe Jamile – Neighborhood Council
= Sue Hestor - Parking
ACTION:None – Informational
11.2014.1407C(V. FLORES: (415) 575-9173)
1038 TARAVAL STREET-between 20thand 21stAvenues, Lot 018 in Assessor’s Block 2349, (District 4) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections303,741.69, and790.123to allow a change of use to legalize an existing tobacco paraphernalia establishmentto abate Enforcement Case No. 13139_ENF. The subject property is located within the Taraval Street Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD) and 65-A Height and Bulk District. The tenant space is approximately 1,555 square feet and there are no proposed building expansions.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Veronica Flores – Staff Report
+ Genoa Gonzalez – Project presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Richards, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson, Hillis
MOTION:19881
12.2016-013911CUA(C. CLARKE: (415) 575-9184)
1100 GRANT AVENUE-on the northeast corner of Pacific Avenue, Lot 010 in Assessor’s Block 0162, (District 3) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning CodeSections303,303.1, and803.6to authorize a397 square-foot Formula Retail Sales and Service use (electronics stored.b.a.Cricket Wireless,a subsidiary of AT&T, that sells mobility products and services, includingmobile telecommunication devices, plans, accessories, and technical services),previously occupied by a Retail Sales and Service use (gift shopd.b.a.Golden Harvest Investment Trading, Inc.),on the ground floor of the two-story-over-basement commercial buildingwithin the Chinatown Residential Neighborhood Commercial (CRNC) District,ChinatownPlanning Area, and 50-NHeight and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:= Colin Clarke – Staff Report
+ Phil Lesser – Project presentation
+ Jim Zhao – Project presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Richards, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson, Hillis
MOTION:19879
13.2016-003880CUA(C. CLARKE: (415) 575-9184)
2487 MISSION STREET-between 21stand 20thStreets, Lot 019 in Assessor’s Block 3610, (District 9) - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning CodeSections303,303.1,703.3, and703.4to authorize a1,335 square-foot Formula Retail Sales and Service use (electronics stored.b.a.Cricket Wireless,a subsidiary of AT&T, that sells mobility products and services, includingmobile telecommunication devices, plans, accessories, and technical services),previously occupied by a Retail clothing store (d.b.a. De Leon),on the ground floor of the two-story commercial buildingwithin the Mission Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) District and 55-XHeight and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:Same as Item 12.
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Richards, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson, Hillis
MOTION:19880
14.2016-008074CUA(D. SIROIS: (415) 575-8714)
615 BAYSHORE BOULEVARD-located on the east side of Bayshore Boulevard between Industrial Street and Helena Streets, Lot 008 in Assessor’s Block 5372, (District 9) -Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 249.65(c)(2)(E) and 303, to establish an automotive repair facility in an existing single-story 10,142 sq ft building  within the Bayshore Boulevard Home Improvement Special Use District. The new automotive repair facility would replace the stone, tile and flooring wholesale/retail outlet that previously occupied the building. The subject property is located within the PDR-2 (Core Production, Distribution and Repair) Zoning District, Bayshore Boulevard Home Improvement Special Use District, and 65-J Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 2, 2017)
SPEAKERS:= Dan Sirois – Staff Report
Jody Knight -
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Richards, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson, Hillis
MOTION:19882
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
15.2016-011542DRP(K. DURANDET: (415) 575-6816
2070 FOLSOM STREET- west side of Folsom Street between 17thand 16thStreets,  Lot 031 in Assessor’s Block 3571, (District 9) -Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2016.08.05.4294 for the new construction of 127 affordable housing units over ground floor commercial, institutional and community services. Per Planning Code Section 315, the project qualifies for an Affordable Housing Project Authorization (AHPA), which is an administrative review similar to a Large Project Authorization (LPA). Under the AHPA, the project is seeking exceptions to the Planning Code requirements for: rear yard (Planning Code 134), usable open space for residential units (Planning Code 135), dwelling unit exposure (Planning Code 140), ground floor height (Planning Code 145.1), off-street loading (Planning Code 152.1), and the calculation for maximum allowable height from curb (Planning Code 260) (See 2016-011542ENX).  The project will provide on-site childcare and housing for transitional aged youth and retail. A publicly accessible promenade will be a feature adjacent to the park with two access points. On July 28, 2016, the Planning Commission reviewed a Zoning Map Amendment related to the project (See 2015-014715PCA). The subject lot is located in the UMU (Urban Mixed Use) Zoning District and 85-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:+ Shannon Dodge – Continuance support
+ Speaker – DR Requestor continuance support
ACTION:Continued to March 23, 2017
AYES:Richards, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson, Hillis
16.2016-007062DRP-02(J. HORN: (415) 575-6925)
752 ELIZABETH STREET-north side between Douglas and Diamond Streets, Lot 018 in Assessor’s Block 2805, (District 8) - Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2015.07.17.1767 proposing a two-story vertical addition and one-story horizontal rear addition to an existing one-story-over-garage single-family home within a RH-2 (Residential House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Staff Analysis:Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:+ Sean Kiegrand – Request for Continuance
+ Speaker – Request for Continuance
= Carol Wooreful -
ACTION:Continued to April 13, 2017
AYES:Richards, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson, Hillis
17.2016-000017DRP(E. SAMONSKY: (415) 575-9112)
43 EVERSON STREET- south side approximately 150 feet east of the intersection with Beacon Street, Lot 024 in Assessor’s Block 7542, (District 8) - Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2016.01.27.8097 proposing construction of a three-story horizontal rear addition and remodel the front facade and interior of a single family dwelling within a RH-1 (Residential House, One-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section31.04(h).
Staff Analysis:  Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to April 6, 2017
AYES:Fong, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore
ABSENT:Johnson, Richards
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
SPEAKERS:Carol Wooreful – Development does not adhere to plans
Adjournment – 8:59 p.m.
ADOPTED: APRIL 6, 2017
[1]Ayes: 8 - Breed, Cohen, Farrell, Ronen, Safai, Sheehy, Tang, Yee. Noes: 3 - Fewer, Kim, Peskin.
You have reached the archived site of the San Francisco Planning DepartmentThis site is no longer active as of Feb 18, 2019For the most up-to-date news and informationVisit our current site
City and County of San Francisco