Presented below are Minutes of the Planning 
    Commission. The top of the this page lists Commission meeting dates for the 
    month.Click on the date and you will reach the minutes for that that 
    week. The minutes present a summary of actions taken at the Planning Commission 
    hearing and provides a Motion or Resolution number for that action.
With most browsers you will be able to search for any text item 
    by using the Ctrl-F keys. It is recommended you search by case number and 
    suffix, if you know it, as that will always be a unique item. You may search 
    by any identifying phrase, including project addresses.
(Please note, commission minutes generally are approved and 
    finalized two weeks following the hearing date.)
1) Certain 
        timely information is being sent after the fact. Sometimes this particular 
        mail is being sent bulk rate and this takes longer so it should be sent 
        well in advance.
Commissioner 
        Antenore:
Gerald Green:
1) This morning 
        he attended the Mayor’s 
        summit on housing and homelessness called Campaign 2000. Items talked 
        about were: housing, affordable housing, and homeless issues. Almost every 
        speaker talked about planning issues and the planning process as well 
        as land use. There were possitive comments regarding the department. There 
        was a strong recognition about the limited land use and talked about higher 
        densities (i.e. taller and larger buildings). There was a strong desire 
        to get better architecture. Mr. Green will continue to be part of this 
        process.
236-238 
      Vernon Street
- Would 
            like the police to monitor this park so it doesn’t 
            become a place for people to use drugs and kept as a park for children 
            to play.
2101 -2125 
        BRYANT STREET, 700 YORK STREET, 2830 20TH STREET, 2717 19TH STREET, also 
        known as the BRYANT SQUARE PROJECT, Assessor's Block 4080 (Lots 7, 
        11, 12, and 14), bounded by Bryant, 19th, York and 20th Streets -- Consideration 
        of:
MOTION NO. 
        15043
(2) Project 
        Authorization under Section 321 for the net addition of 148,000 square 
        feet of office space. Recommendation: Approval With Conditions.
SPEAKER(S) IN 
        SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT:
(+) Robert 
        McCarthy - McCarthy and Szwartz
At Approximately4:30 P.M.6:53 p.m.the Planning Commission Convened 
    into a Special Discretionary Review (Dr) Hearing.
SPEAKER(S):
- Mr. Mahony asked 
    the Louie’s 
    for $10,000 to protect Mr. Mahony from damage and this is just unacceptable.
- Blockbuster 
      has provided programs for youth sports programs.
Adjournment: 8:46 
    P.M.
SPEAKER(S):None
ACTION:Approved
SPEAKER(S):None
AYES:Theoharis, 
        Antenore, Joe, Martin, Chinchilla, Richardson
ABSENT:Mills
ABSENT:Mills
BOA:None
(-) 
      Sue Hester- 
      The developer wants another tax brake.- 
      The site was approved as live/work and it is not being occupied as live/work.- 
      The tenants of this building are all business and not live/work.
SPEAKER(S):(+) speaker’s name not understood
SPEAKER(S):(+) 
      Jennifer Astis - representing Sprint PCS- This complies with the WTS guidelines and the SF Municipal Codes.(-) 
      Tracy Hues - resident of Noe Valley
At Approximately5:00p.m. 7:05 pm.the Planning Commission Convened 
      into a Special Discretionary Review (Dr) Hearing. Procedures governing Special 
      DR Hearings are as follow: DR Requestor(s) are provided with up to five 
      (5) minutes for a presentation and those in support of the DR Requestor(s) 
      are provided with up to three (3) minutes each. The Project Sponsor is then 
      provided with up to five (5) minutes for a presentation and those in support 
      of the Project are provided with up to three (3) minutes each. At the conclusion, 
      each side (not each person) is provided with 2 minutes for a rebuttal. Those 
      cases that are scheduled on this calendar prior to 4:30 PM, but have not 
      been called or heard by 4:30 PM, could be continued to a later time or date 
      as determined by the Commission.
ABSENT:Mills
Back to top
Return to the Planning Department's Home Page.Click here.