<<Project Start>>






San Francisco Planning Department : Spetember 19, 2013 - Joint Hearing






















































































Planning Department












Home
 
/


Public Hearings

			
				/
			
				
Planning Commission

			
				/
			
				
Minutes

			
				/
			
				
2013


/ Spetember 19, 2013 - Joint Hearing












Spetember 19, 2013 - Joint Hearing












larger font size


smaller font size


font size


text only


text






















SAN FRANCISCO


PLANNING COMMISSION


&


HEALTH COMMISSION


 


 


 


Meeting Minutes 


 


Commission Chambers, Room 400


City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place


San Francisco, CA 94102-4689


 


 


 


Thursday, September 19, 2013


10:00 a.m.


Special Joint Meeting


                                


PLANNING COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:
  
Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya


 


HEALTH COMMISSIONERS PRESENT: 
 
Melara, Chow, Karshmer, Singer, Taylor-McGhee


 


COMMISSIONER ABSENT: 
 
Sanchez


 


THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 10: 04 AM.


 


STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:
  
John Rahaim – Planning Director, Claudia Flores, and Jonas P. Ionin - Acting Commission Secretary.


 


A.
            
SPECIAL CALENDAR
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>


 


1.
                   
2013.0360EU
 
                                                                                      
          
(C. FLORES: (415) 558-6473)
 


HEALTH CARE SERVICES MASTER PLAN
 - 
On November 23, 2010, the Board of Supervisors adopted Ordinance No. 300-10, requiring the Department of Public Health and the Planning Department to prepare a Health Care Services Master Plan (“HCSMP”), to “provide the Health Commission, the Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors with information and public policy recommendations to guide their decisions to promote the City's land use and policy goals developed in such Plan, such as distribution and access to health care services”. The Ordinance created Planning Code Sections 342 and 342.10 to create and implement the HCSMP. An informational hearing on the Draft HCSMP was held at the Health Commission on July 16, 2013. An informational hearing on the Draft HCSMP was held at the Planning Commission on July 18, 2013. Public comment on the draft Plan closed August 22, 2013. Planning Department and Department of Public Health staff will present a summary of public comments and a revised draft of the HCSMP at a special joint meeting of the San Francisco Health Commission and the San Francisco Planning Commission. At this joint meeting, each Commission will consider adopting a resolution to recommend approval of the Plan by the Board of Supervisors. The Planning Commission will also consider adopting the Negative Declaration prepared under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for the HCSMP, and making CEQA Findings.


Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval


 


SPEAKERS:
           
Colleen Chawla – HCSMP presentation


                                
Claudia Flores –Department presentation


  
+ Susan Fong – Comments on changes, recommendations that were incorporated and those that were not


+ Hillary Ronin, Aide to Supervisor Campos – Landmark cutting edge legislation, extended gratitude to everyone involved


+ Linda Richardson – Milestone in the history of the City and County. Bayview Hunters Point Community inclusion


+ Lucy Johns – Health care planning in the City


+ Janelle Long – Staff acknowledged comments submitted


ACTION:
                
Adopted a Recommendation for Approval as amended to include: “Be It Further Resolved, that the Planning Commission intends to utilize the HCSMP to inform and support citywide strategic and health improvement planning efforts, particularly for San Francisco’s vulnerable populations.”


AYES:
                     
Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya


RESOLUTION:
      
18964


 


***
                  
Following the Planning Commission action, the Health Commission acted separately adopting a similar recommendation for approval.


 


B.
         
PUBLIC COMMENT


At this time, members of the public may address the Commissions on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commissions except agenda items.
  
With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commissions will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.
  
When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commissions have closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commissions must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.
  
Each member of the public may address the Commissions for up to three minutes. 


 


The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.
  
In response to public comment, the commission is limited to: 


 


(1)
  
responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or


(2)
  
requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or 


(3)
  
directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.
  
(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))


None


 


Adjournment – 
11:04 AM.


 


adopted – 
September 3, 2013










Download Adobe Acrobat Reader


Download Adobe Flash Player


Download Microsoft Powerpoint Viewer


Download Microsoft Excel Viewer


Download Microsoft Word Viewer






 


Last updated: 11/6/2013 2:52:46 PM
<<Project End>>