SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers - Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
Thursday, January 8, 2009
1:30 PM
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Olague, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Miguel, Moore and Sugaya
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT OLAGUE AT 1:45 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE: John Rahaim – Director of Planning, Larry Badiner – Zoning Administrator, Tim Frye, Kevin Guy, Christine Lamorena, Debra Dwyer, and Linda Avery – Commission Secretary.
TheCommissionwill consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
2400 IRVING STREET- northwest corner of 25thAvenue, Lot 053 in Assessor's Block 1725- An Ordinance to amend Map Sheets ZN05 and SU05 the Planning Code in order to reclassify the northern half of the Subject Property from RH-2 (Residential House, Two-Family) to NC-2 (Neighborhood Commercial, Small-Scale), pursuant to Planning Code Section 302.The proposed Ordinance is before the Commission so that it may recommend adoption, rejection, or adoption with modifications to the Board of Supervisors, and adopt findings, including environmental findings and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the Priority Policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Recommend adoption to the Board of Supervisors.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of December 11, 2008)
(Proposed for continuance to February 5, 2009)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued as proposed
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore and Sugaya
Amendments to Articles 10 and 11 and adding a new Section 309.3 of the Planning Code-Ordinance introduced by Mayor Newsom amending Articles 10 and 11 and adding a new Section 309.3 of the Planning Code, contingent on voter approval in the November 4, 2008 general election of the proposed Charter amendment creating an Historic Preservation Commission, to provide additional criteria for Planning Commission review of Historic Preservation Commission decisions, to provide for Section 309 review at the discretion of the Planning Department Director of certain projects requiring Certificates of Appropriateness under Article 10 of the Planning Code, and to create a rebuttable presumption of compatibility for certain projects requiring Certificates of Appropriateness under Article 10 of the Planning Code; adopting findings, including environmental findings and findings required by Section 101.1 of the Planning Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
(Continued from Regular Meeting of November 20, 2008)
(Proposed for continuance to January 22, 2009)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued as proposed
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore and Sugaya
B.COMMISSIONERS' QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
SPEAKER(S):None
ACTION:From the draft, the Commission approved a schedule that did not include canceling July 2, 2009 and October 8, 2009.All other proposed hearing dates and cancellations were approved by voice vote.
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore and Sugaya
Commissioner Antonini:
-He mentioned an article in the Chronicle on the concept of fees for cars entering various parts of the city.I believe we have this scheduled for future discussion because I think it is important that we listen to comments from the public and have an ability to weigh in.
Commissioner Miguel:
Zoning Administrator Badiner responded:
Commissioner Miguel:
As the Zoning Administrator Badiner was responding,Commission Secretary Avery reminded him that this item is not on the agenda and could therefore not be discussed.
Commissioner Olaguerequested that the item be placed on calendar next week.
Zoning Administrator Badinerrequested that this be put on calendar towards the end of the month (1/22/09) to continue with discussions with the City Attorney and other involved parties.
Commissioner Olague agreed.
Commissioner Lee:
Commissioner Sugaya:
Director Rahaim responded:
-Yes they do plan to meet the first time on January 21st
Director Rahaim:
Zoning Administrator Badiner:
Director Rahaim:
Board of Supervisors:The Board met and has elected David Chiu as President
Board of Appeals:The Board of Appeals did not meet
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:
Jim Salinas, Sr., Louise Williams, Lloyd Thibeaux, Miguel Gomez, Hector Castillo, Juan Antimo, Alberto Porras:
Re:Community benefits – when developers commit to this commission that they are going to use union labor and put San Franciscans to work first, they are not doing it.[They cited the project at 3400 Cesar Chavez as an example.]The members of his union do not believe in City Build as of a year ago.
7a.2007.1117CV(T. FRYE: (415) 575-6822)
1731 POWELL STREET-northwest intersection of Powell and Filbert Streets at Columbus Avenue, formerly the Pagoda and the Palace Theaters, Assessor's Block 0101; Lot 004.Request for Conditional Use approvalpursuant to Sections 303, 703.2, and 722 of the Planning Code to rehabilitate the existing building to provide up to 18 dwelling units, ground floor retail commercial space, and up to 27 off-street parking spaces. The Zoning Administrator will hear related rear yard modification and exposure variance. The subject property is within the North Beach Neighborhood Commercial District with a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:
Brett Gladstone, Attorney representing the project sponsor, gave a brief description of the project
In support: Ursula Arvand, Tom Hayes, Yesenia Oropeza, Jorge Alvarez, Miguel Garcia, Eli Arani Luno, Catherine Newburg, Chuck Thomas, Elena Astukias, Bob Mittelstadt, Jack Lee fong, Richard Hanlin, Marsha Garland, Micki Jones, Lynn Jefferson, Russ Naylor, and Martin Kirkwood
In opposition:Joan Wood
ACTION:Approved with conditions as modified by staff
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Lee, and Moore
NAYES:Sugaya
MOTION:17797
7b.2007.1117CV(T. FRYE: (415) 575-6822)
1731 POWELL STREET-northwest intersection of Powell and Filbert Streets at Columbus Avenue, formerly the Pagoda and the Palace Theaters, Assessor's Block 0101; Lot 004.Request for Variancepursuant to Sections 135 and 140 of the Planning Code for a rear yard modification and exposure. The subject property is within the North Beach Neighborhood Commercial District with a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
SPEAKERS:Same as those listed for item 7a.
ACTION:The Zoning Administrator closed the public hearing and granted the variance subject to conditions of approval.
8.2008.0658C(K. GUY: (415) 558-6163)
1349 CLAY STREET- between Jones and Leavenworth Streets, Lot 033 of Assessor's Block 0220 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationto allow a proposed addition to an existing building in excess of 40 feet in height. The project proposes to add two stories to an existing two-story over basement building, renovate the existing facade, add decks at the fourth level and the roof, and add an elevator/stair penthouse and solar array to the roof. The finished roof would reach a height of approximately 59 feet. As permitted by the Planning Code, portions of the penthouse would exceed the 65-foot height limit, up to a maximum height of approximately 69 feet. The number of existing dwelling units will not change. The project site is located within the RM-3 Zoning District and the 65-A Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:
Ross Levi- Project Architect – described the latest revisions to the project
ACTION:Approved project as follows:The proposalis to add one story to an existing two-story over basement building, renovate the existing facade and interior of the building, add a deck to the roof, and add a solar array to the roof. The finished roof would reach a height of approximately 50 feet. The number of existing dwelling units will not change.
AYES:Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Lee, and Sugaya
ABSENT:Olague and Moore
MOTION:17798
9.2008.0648C(C. LAMORENA: (415) 575-9085)
514 27thAve. (aka 6255 Geary Blvd.)– east side between Geary Boulevard and Anza Street; Lot 027A of Assessor's Block 1518 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 712.54 and 303, to convert a salon into a foot massage establishment (dba Wonderfoot Health Center), located in an NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate-Scale) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:
Tony Fong– Project Designer and Representative of the Project Sponsor – described the project
ACTION:Approved with conditions as drafted
AYES:Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Lee, and Sugaya
ABSENT:Olague and Moore
MOTION:17799
10.2008.1282D(C. LAMORENA: (415) 575-9085)
40 McLaren Avenue-north side between El Camino Del Mar and 28th Avenue; Lot 010 in Assessor's Block 1326–Request for Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2008.02.20.5155, proposing to construct two horizontal additions at the east side of the 2nd story of the two-story over basement, single-family detached dwelling in an RH-1(D) [Residential House, Single-Family (Detached Dwellings)] Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and Approve the Project
SPEAKERS:
Ruth Timbrell– DR Requestor – expressed concerns that the third phase of the project will compromise her light, air, and space.She would like the second floor master bathroom to be reduced by three feet.
Steve Geissler– Project Architect and Representative of the Project Sponsor – described the project and gave testimony of how project proposal has responded to the DR Requestor's concerns.
Susan McAndrews– Project Sponsor – gave testimony of their (family) involvement in the neighborhood and their need for this project.
ACTION:Did not take Discretionary Review and approved the project
AYES:Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Lee, Moore and Sugaya
DRA No.:0056
11.2007.0347E(D. DWYER: (415) 575-9031)
San FranciscoBicycle Plan Project DEIR-Public Hearing on the Draft Environmental Impact Report. The project site is located throughout the City primarily within the street right-of-way and on some park land – The proposed project includes an update of the goals, objectives and actions of the San Francisco Bicycle Plan, amendments to the San Francisco General Plan, Planning Code and Transportation Code to reflect the updated San Francisco Bicycle Plan, and proposed improvements to the City's existing bicycle route network including 60 near-term improvement projects, minor improvements and long-term improvements to the bicycle route network.The proposed project would require approval by the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency Board of Directors as well as the Board of Supervisors.Written comments on the DEIR will be accepted at the Planning Department's offices until the close of business on January 13, 2009.
SPEAKERS:
Lea Sheam– believes the DEIR is adequate and the review process should not be delayed
ACTION:Public hearing on the draft EIR only.No action by the Commission
G.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
SPEAKERS:
Sylvia Johnson
Re:[Comments were not clear]
Hiroshi Fukuda
Re:Area Plans have not been forth coming in the past 10 years as they have been in the past few years.Neighborhood volunteers do not have the staff and or time to fight the fires on all fronts.Why do things have to go so fast?In most cases, although Area Plans may have been available for quite some time, environmental documents have not.Please allow volunteers time to focus on these things that are coming down.
Adjournment:6:20 p.m.
THESE MINUTES WERE PROPOSED FOR ADOPTION AT THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE PLANNING COMMISISON ON APRIL 9 2009
Speakers:None
AYES:Miguel, Olague, Borden, Lee, Moore, and Sugaya
ABSENT:Antonini