6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Johnson:  
I wanted to say that today will be my last hearing as a Planning Commissioner for San 
Francisco. I have been a proud public servant in volunteer capacity for around 14 years 
now. I've served on Citizen Advisory Committee. I was on the OCII Commission when it was 
formed and I’ve recently served the last 3 1/2 years as Planning Commissioner. I'm leaving 
to hopefully continue my public service in other capacities, but I wanted to give a 
statement here to the Commission, to the staff and to the rest of the city that I've been 
honored to serve beside you, been honored to serve the city and just leave with a couple of 
words on this day. I was really sad coming into the building. So, I wrote some things down 
to make sure I didn't forget anything.  
 
In my time at the commission, we've deliberated affordability, availability housing, shared 
use models for home and transit, and how SF should respond to our economic engine from 
the changing nature of retail and what our streets should look like to the coming role of 
cannabis which we'll see play out over the coming years. This Commission has also delved 
beyond our borders in the Planning Department to look at the city's workings. I kind of 
started it off but we've had a number of joint hearings with other -- our sister agencies and 
we've really begun pushing to have all of us work together and work better and I really 
appreciate the work of the staff and the Planning Commission on doing that.  
 
I want to leave with just a couple of pet items and a few words for hopefully my successor 
who will be coming in the next few weeks. So the first one is I still want to push to continue 
to really question the role of discretionary review. The Commission needs more time in the 
future, not less, because this is the direction of the city. We need to be spending our time 
on citywide policy and what our thoughts on how we should shape this city so that it's for 
everybody and adjudicating private disputes between neighbors takes away from that 
time. I think we should be the tail that wags the dog in envisioning how societal shifts will 
impact what our physical environment needs to look like. We've spend a lot of time talking 
about the changing nature of retail and I really think it is going to require a reshaping of 

San Francisco Planning Commission