5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for November 29, 2018 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Fong, Hillis, Koppel, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Johnson, Melgar 
 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
So, I have been gone two weeks. So this will be three weeks now that I’ve been in this 
room and I, a bit, was reading my entire time I was on my trip. And I had a big stack of 
things I wanted to talk about. But just the last couple of days, there have been a lot of 
items that were newsworthy. This morning's Chronicle, two items in there. The Delta Plan 
is approved; San Francisco's water supply will be reduced. The PUC says if we have a dry 
spell we’re going to have to conserve 40% beyond where we currently our consumption is, 
which is pretty efficient already. And they said don’t worry; we're going to build the 
desalinization plant or get ground water. And we keep adding population. And if our water 
is going to be cut, and we’re already efficient, I really want to understand. And I’ve asked 
this before, how we’re going to manage this? So, how, you know, are we planning for the 
water usage that we’re going to be requiring with all these new units that we add? Given 
the fact that desalinization plant, or whatever, probably is going to take ten years to build.  
Secondly, in today’s Chronicle, on the front page of the second section was a big article on 
CASA, Committee to House the Bay Area, I believe. There was also an article in the 
Examiner. I’ve asked that we have an informational on it. I went on the website and it was 
incredibly complicated. It was a very massive plan, creating a new quasi-public agency that 
this state would have to create. It also incorporates elements of SB50, the Wiener density 
transit thing, SB18. It looks like all the pieces are in place to move this plan forward, but a 
lot of people I know don't even know about it. So I would really like to have an 
informational here, so that at least we understand what the impact of it is on this city.  Two 
other quick things, 2019 CEO survey began today’s paper, recession coming in 2019 and 
for sure 2020. Asked to have Ted Egan come and talk about the state of San Francisco, its 
economy. Are we going to be in sync with the nation or are we going to be an outlier, like 
we were before. And lastly, it took a year to come but we actually have demo legislation 
that was proposed by Supervisor Peskin. I read all 64 pages of it. I can't wait to actually 
have this item heard here and we give advice back to the Board of Supervisors and I really 
look forward to that. Thank you.   
 
President Hillis:    
Thank you. And on the state legislation in CASA, we did request a hearing so, we can 
hopefully calendar that early next year.   
 
Commissioner Moore:    
In response to what you both just said, I'm asking the Director. The City of San Jose just last 
week, against much public protest, announced that they have a 50-acre public site, owned 
by the City of San Jose, in which they approved a Google campus. That sounds somewhat 

San Francisco Planning Commission