2. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 22, 2018 
• Draft Minutes for March 29, 2018 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fong, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Hillis 
 
3. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Interestingly enough it's been a very busy week as Commissioner Johnson said news-wise. 
We’ve actually missed two weeks. We weren't here last week, but I hope that the 
Department and -- the keeping with what we were talking about would reanalyze the 
amendments to Senator Weiner’s bill. I think it’s good that we know the impact to the City 
and it's fair for us to continue to evolve with the amendments as they go to understand 
what they are and how they impact us. The other one is, while we were away there was 
this article “Portals of the Past” it’s an interesting kind of thing in the Chronicle every week 
in the Bay Area section. Last week the title was “Lively lengthy battle over where to bury 
city’s dead.” I don't know if anybody remembers but we used to have cemeteries, garden 
cemeteries in the City. There are very few places left to bury anybody I guess from the ‘30s 
and ‘40s but one paragraph in the lengthy battle over whether to exhume everybody and 
move them to Colma struck me. And it said – people writing into the letters to the editors 
– and they said, “People that wanted the cemeteries removed were recent arrivals who 
have no respect for the city’s past or its elders,” so it just made me feel like hey this is 2018 
and we have the same thing for old people who are coming new to the City, they don’t 
respect the past so we can't change anything. There are a lot of parallels and the growth of 
San Francisco to what is happening today as we continue to grow. Lastly, we talked about 
construction costs and their impact on the ability to actually build or have a project pencil 
out. Interestingly that Matier and Ross have a column on a MUNI platform at Chase Center, 
I guess that the Warriors arena? I guess. I'm not up on my branding. $33 million dollars – 
it’s a $160,000 a foot but they’re worried that nobody’s going to bid on it because there are 
not enough workers and there’s too much business to actually bid on a $33 million 

San Francisco Planning Commission