6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
It has been a very busy week. Actually, so much happened this week, I think more than 
happened in the break that we were out so I’m going to be very brief. There was – we’ve 
been hearing about the Tuolumne River and the PUC’s fighting the State Water Resources 
Board to curtail shipments of water to the Bay Area and there was a point counterpoint on 
Tuesday in the Chronicle. “City’s demand destroying state’s rivers, native fisheries”, Yes on 
the yes side, No, “California plan would force rationing throughout Bay Area”. When I was 
reading the 807 Franklin, the negative deck in the EIR on page 120, they talked about 
water resources and it talked about, will adding additional residents to this project create 
any issues with water? And the answer in that EIR was no because we were supposed to 
have enough water in the future for these residents come I think through 2040 was what it 
was. But if you look at what is being said here under the No side, “Under this scenario, 
huge portions of the Bay Area would immediately face water rationing on the order of 20 
to 30 percent beyond the conservation rates achieved during the recent drought. Since the 
Bay Area’s Tuolumne River water users are already among the most frugal in California 
(residents use just 54 gallons per capita, per day, compared to the statewide average of 82 
gallons),” that is what Todd David had mentioned when I brought this up last time. “Some 
communities will be forced to achieve the water-use rates unseen anywhere in the 
developed world.” Then it went on and said, “San Francisco, is one of the cities, could all be 
forced to impose emergency moratoria on building everything from schools and parks to 
hospitals and housing.” So, I think this is kind of a looming issue, I don't know with the 
sense of my other Commissioners is, but maybe it would be informational from the SF PUC 
to come and tell us about what the water situation is, and why we’re going to have 
enough water in all of these buildings. I think it might, and I understand the methodology, 
might be something we could be interested in; so I got a thumbs up from Commissioner 
Fong and a couple of head nods so Commission President and Vice President, maybe we 
can schedule something.   
 
Second thing, I had lunch this week with are a member of-- a major member -- a 
prominent member of the development community and this person was talking about one 
of our recent decisions to have a house be put back the way it was, and the fact that that 
LLC could potentially go bankrupt. So the question I have is, understanding that we have 
asked for these things to happen and these partnerships, LLCs and things, are kind of 
separate, like 214 States Street, 310 Montcalm. If a development entity where to go 
bankrupt and they couldn't do what we did, what actually happens? I mean I think that it is 
a good question. I would like to follow up on these ones because these are, I think, 
significant steps that we have taken to deter bad behavior when we really thought there 
was a fraudulent behavior. But, I really am concerned about following up on these and if 

San Francisco Planning Commission