12. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 1, 2018 – Closed Session 
• Draft Minutes for February 1, 2018 - Regular 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Moore, Richards, Fong, Koppel, Melgar 
 
13. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, interestingly enough, first of all I'm elated that I looked down and we have new 
monitors and things. Everything is crystal clear when somebody puts something up on the 
overhead I'll be able to read it now and not try to squint. Congratulations San Francisco for 
being in 2018. I have a couple of things to talk about today, nothing huge, but I wanted to 
just kind of triangulate. We think here in San Francisco that everything that's happening 
from a land use and housing point of view pretty much happens to us and we're special 
and nobody else in the world is experiencing things, but there is an article that -- and I 
don't get MacLean’s, but Maclean’s is a publication from Canada and there is an article this 
week in Maclean’s and it's entitled “Andy Yan, the Analyst to Expose Vancouver's Real 
Estate Disaster.” I really suggest anybody who wants to really understand what's 
happening in Vancouver, people that have held Vancouver up as the model for what we 
should be doing in real estate should take a look at it. What basically, the synopsis to the 
article is, this person was able to figure out through public records, access, etc., who was 
actually buying the homes that were being created in Vancouver and one of the 
neighborhoods that he first chose, two thirds of them did not come from Vancouver. They 
actually came from outside of Canada. He further went on and did some more 
investigation and found that it wasn't only that these buyers were coming in, they weren't 
paying cash, and they were actually getting mortgages. So, HSBC and CIBC, the two major 
banks in Canada, were also in on the act. Then he went further and found that the people 
that were building the condos were in on this whole kind of system and in the very last 
portion of the article, he found that the people that were running the city were in on it. So, 
this whole kind of bubble in Vancouver wasn't being caused by outside groups, it was 
being caused by everybody who was benefiting from the bubble. It’s a really, really good 
article. Along the same lines in Bloomberg -- again, I don't get Bloomberg, but I read it on 

San Francisco Planning Commission