7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for December 6, 2018 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Koppel, Johnson, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Fong 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Secretary Ionin, can you put this up on the overhead, please? So, we heard an item last 
Thursday, 49 Hopkins. And we had the project sponsor who is part of the LLC for the 
redevelopment of that project come and claim that he and his family were going to move 
to 49 Hopkins because they needed the room to expand their family. I just want, you know, 
we’re going to be hearing demo legislation and people get up and say all kinds of things to 
us and we hear "family" and we kind of go, oh, we need more family housing. You know, 
does the family housing conform to the family housing suggested guidelines; a lot of 
things that people shine us on. This gentleman here, Mr. Johnston, actually went on 
record; it’s on StockworthTV.com on 9-9-18. He knocked the house down in late 2017. He 
was interviewed in 2018 and he says my home is in Central Florida. I develop single-family 
homes and multi-unit buildings in San Francisco, but I intend to raise my family in Central 
Florida. Yet he stood before us last Thursday and he claimed he was going to move into 49 
Hopkins. Enough said.   
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I'd like to make a constructive suggestion that at some point this Commission is introduced 
to how the Community Business Priority Processing Program works. Since we last time and 
this week again have something where somehow what we have in front of us is not fully 
understood based on the way it is submitted, little shortcuts or whatever, because it has an 
implied understanding within the program that we're just, by consent approving these 
things. I would like to have this Commission get a better introduction of how it is being 
handled, what exactly the preclusions are; we are all in support of expediting particularly 
local-grown small business applications. However, the confusion which occurred last week 
and again this week makes me personally want to hear a little bit more what is entailed in 

San Francisco Planning Commission