8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 11, 2018 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Fong, Melgar, Moore 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I'll ration my comments over the next 6 or 8 weeks. I've been out for a week and I've been 
reading quite a bit, but I have three things today. The first one it's really interesting there 
was a study by Harvard economist named Raj Chetty, and he talks about the impact of jobs 
and social mobility, economic mobility, where those jobs are added in the report that he 
did, which I think are really interesting read. And I’ll quote is “Job growth is not sufficient 
by itself to create upward mobility. It's almost as if racial disparities have been amplified by 
the job growth.” So, as we look at like the Central SoMa plan and other, you know, areas 
where we’re developing, just adding jobs isn't the panacea that lists all boats. In fact, it 
actually sinks a few more boats I think than we realize, at least according to this study.  
 
Secondly, I really found this an interesting article by Joel Engardio. I’ve never met the man 
but about talking about hey kind of like a block in the Sunset and the Richmond where 
people can band together and they can decide to have their single family homes 
demolished and build, I think three units in each parcel and they get a unit themselves for 
later in life and they kind of be taken care of. It’s really, really, really interesting article and 
it compares that type of activity to Barcelona and Paris where you have these five story 
buildings, a really interesting article.  At the end of the article, I thought, oh how can we 
create 10,000 new homes? We can just build the homes we have already entitled as well. 
So, let's just kind of put that in our hat.  
 
And lastly, we hear from Discretionary Review a lot and we hear from people saying light 
isn’t a big deal and shade isn't a big deal. In the New York Times this weekend, there's a 
whole article about darkness and shade and how people are not buying apartments that 
are dark and shady. There's now a map or an app that somebody invented that actually 
says if I live in this building, this is how much light I get during the day, almost like a 
shadow study. And it's a really, really interesting app. I took a look at it and I don't know 
how they did it, but it really goes to the fact that light – sunlight and air is a big deal and 
buyers are actually, are recognizing that as well. So it's an interesting read. There will be 
more next week.