8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 1, 2018 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Richards, Koppel, Johnson, Melgar, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Fong 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards:  
I have two items today. I'm going to request or I’m going to at least float the idea -- and 
the reason is, we're getting it from all angles around why things are not being constructed. 
I actually ran into Brian Spears, who is a developer who developed the Lumina Building at 
Market and Buchanan in the Upper Market area on the street on Saturday. He's now 
building the Flat Iron at the corner of Church and Market, and I said, “Brian, hey what's 
going on? How’s the market?” and he said, “Oh, my God. You can't believe it. Cost of 
construction is going through the roof.” He said “I'm getting calls from people who have 
entitled projects, some of which are kind of infamous here, one that was DR’d because of a 
shadow issue on a beer garden because they can’t pencil the numbers out” and I said, “So 
what's the deal?” “The cost of concrete has gone up. Everything has gone up.” Then I read 
in the paper here The Bay City Beacon everybody has got an opinion on this. We heard 
from the folks from HAC1, Housing Action Coalition One, public testimony or public 
comment that it was the inclusionary affordable that was killing everything and then I 
came across this in the Bay City Beacon which really floored me. I’ll read it, it’s an article by 
Cathy Reisenwitz, her opinion is "San Francisco's Discretionary Review process is the single 
largest contributing factor to the high home building costs. Most of the country permit 
construction “by-right” meaning if a project meets local Zoning and Code regulations, the 
developer gets to get build it. San Francisco insists on an individualized approval process 
for each project.” What I’m trying to get to is I would hope that maybe when we have the 
Building Inspection Commission joint hearing meeting we have an informational on why 
things are not getting built. Is it an inclusionary issue? Is it construction issue? Is it the fact 
that DR is driving everything? I just wanted to throw that out there and I will talk with the 
officers about that later.  
 
I have one other item, Secretary Ionin. So I was sitting at restaurant called Squat and 
Gobble at 16th Market and Noe. I was talking to an individual and this individual was 
actually part of a nonprofit and they were interested in acquiring a site in the Upper 
Market. I said to him, how many square feet do you need etc. and we started looking at 
properties that still had development potential and I said to him, “Well, the parcel that you 
are interested in is 65 feet right now.” Then I started talking about the density bill and 
these different things and so they were trying to do a mixed-use project, as a part of the 
nonprofit mission and I looked across the street and I said to him, “You see that building 
with the kind of turret and cupola on top? From the street to the top of the roof, is 57 feet. 
When you take that cupola, the kind of hat that sits on top, it makes 63 feet.” This 

San Francisco Planning Commission