4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 4, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I'd like to do a shout out to the Planning Department for an incredible performance at the 
National APA Conference that started last Friday and ended on Tuesday. Just to test basics, 
I actually chose two mobile workshops to anchor myself really in the discussion and see 
how we together really do. What are the on-ground results of what we do, and I chose the 
Mission District Displacement and Stabilization Workshop and the San Francisco Accessory 
Dwelling Units. Those were excellent workshops and I can remove myself from having a 
stake in this discussion but look at it in terms of what are we communicating to others who 
do look for us as a learning laboratory. And I thought the presentations were excellent. 
And I wish in a certain way that some of us sometimes have to benefit to look at the results 
of what we're doing, not to participate just in the process. And I'm seeing that particularly 
with respect to Accessory Dwelling Units, where I was able, being myself quite critical of 
that process, saw three or four real success stories of how it should be done. We mostly 
hear in DR, hear the things of how it should not be done, but I think the Department as it 
set themselves have learned a lot and I wish sometimes Director Rahaim, that the 
Department would make a presentation of what has really worked; what has really created 
results of livable, attractive accessory dwelling units and where do we still have problems 
because we still have not eliminated problems. So, all in all, I was very, very impressed. I 
also participated in a seminar on the SF Cultural District, strategically intercepting 
gentrification. Something which everybody across the country is concerned about, and 
here again, really well presented and a lot to learn and I'm very, very happy to send my 
thank you to the Department in everything they did. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission