8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 17, 2019 – Joint with Rec and Park 
• Draft Minutes for October 17, 2019 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
• Draft Minutes for October 24, 2019 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted as Corrected 
AYES:  
Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I received several calls, actually probably about half a dozen from, I’d say, citizens with their 
hair on fire, because apparently there’s an e-mail that has been going around last Monday. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 7, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
Mr. Josh Switzky spoke at the West of Twin Peaks Council neighborhood’s meeting and he 
discussed additional priority development areas in, I guess this was a handout that he had. 
I believe he was supposed to be speak on ADU’s, but I think -- it is a promising, interesting 
development as an alternative to SB 50, I think is how he phrased it. I think the Department 
should have a hearing on this and tell us what PDAs are so that we don’t have, we can put 
the fire out on everybody's hair about what they think is going to happen to their 
neighborhood because they are already jumping to conclusions about dystopia.   
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
I attended a seminar this morning where we were talking to the Building Owners and 
Managers Association downtown about bringing their buildings up to compliance with 
climate change goals and sustainability goals. As you know, transportation and buildings 
are the two largest causes of greenhouse gas emissions in the climate change situation we 
have and it is actually starting to take motion. The City is targeting to be net zero energy by 
2050. So, we have got about 31 years to get there. But architects, engineers, designers, when 
you are designing these new buildings, they are not going to have gas in them. Everything 
is going to be electric. Please adjust everything accordingly because this is where things are 
going.   
 
10. 
PLANNING DIRECTOR RECRUITMENT AND HIRING PROCESS: Discussion and possible 
adoption of a Motion to endorse the process for the recruitment of candidates for the 
position of Planning Director and making a hiring recommendation to the Mayor. 
 
Preliminary Recommendation:  Endorse Process 
SPEAKERS: 
= Shawn Sherborn – Process 
 
 
= Sue Hestor – Big decision, slow down 
ACTION: 
Endorsed the Process and tentatively scheduled Closed Sessions on 
November 14, 2019, November 21, 2019, December 5, 2019, and 
December 9, 10 or 11, 2019. 
AYES:  
Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards