6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 14, 2019 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 4, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 15 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore  
ABSENT: 
Richards 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I have three items. I would like to ask the Commission to close in memory Corrine Woods 
tonight. Yes, exactly my reaction Director Rahaim. She passed away on Monday totally 
unexpectedly. Fabulous Waterfront neighborhood advocate; strong person, often in front 
of the Commission when we dealt with issues on the Waterfront and her passing came 
unexpected. I ask that we close in her memory. The second thing is, I wanted to bring this 
up a few weeks ago. There was an article on Friday, March 15th in the paper, an estimated 
100,000 homes are sitting empty in San Francisco. I would like to ask the director, perhaps 
not today but at some point, to comment on how the sources for making such a statement 
were put together. 100,000 empty units in light of the struggle we are going through every 
week is absolutely unfathomable. However, since I do not know exactly how to identify the 
sources by which these data are compiled, I would like for guidance on putting that in our 
ongoing discussions, thank you. I can pass this around for those who haven't seen it.  
 
My third comment is going to be a little bit emotionally laden. And I need to talk about 
memo to Planning Commission dated March 26th or 25th. It is not agendized today, but it 
speaks to changes in how we look at roof decks. And I want to go back and reflect that 
throughout 2018, we made major strides in this Commission to present policy and act on 
policy which much reflected and simplified of how we look at DRs which deal with roof 
decks. I have to say that the memo that is in front of us that was also stuck in this very large 
package of this week's commission package does the opposite from what I think this 
Commission had been supporting. And I have to unfortunately say, for me it is a misstep in 
the use of discretionary power to come up with something which is completely counter to 
the major tenants of what we are standing for. I like the Director to, one, put a hold on this 
becoming law by tomorrow, April 5th so says the attachment to this memo and number 
two, allow the Commission and the community to hear of what we all embraced on August 
30th when a formal hearing was held with respect to the subject matter. It was exactly 
given as an executive summary, hearing date August 30th, Residential Roof Deck Policies 
which very clearly summarized the sensitivities and triggers which have been coming 
through the Commission’s voice for at least the last three years and has gotten stronger 
and stronger, uniform consensus from how we look at roof decks. We are not speaking just 
from a story building, the building, a very large building, we are talking about roof 
additions also in smaller scale neighborhoods, Mission, Noe Valley and on and on and on. 
And I strongly urge that this would be on hold until we have an ability to discuss with you 
and your staff where this should go because in the end, we have the discretion to again 
hear this as unnecessary DRs. I want to stop. I am emotionally a little bit choked up about 
it. I’ve put a lot of energy into this myself. You have taken it forward into neighborhood 
specific guidelines and all of a sudden, this thing shows up and it just doesn't, it just 
doesn’t do it.  
 
President Melgar: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. Director Rahaim, did you want to say something or --  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 4, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 15 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Yeah, it’s not on the calendar today.  Commissioner, I was going to talk about this in my 
comments today. So I’ll, if I could I’ll just do it now. What we had proposed is a Department 
policy which there are several such policies in the Department. Just to guide staff’s review 
of projects. And what we had attempted to do is incorporate the kind of direction that you 
have been giving us over the last couple years on roof decks. So clearly, you’re feeling that 
there is something we didn't capture correctly. So, I am happy to kind of ask staff to hold 
on these.  I just -- and have a hearing. The idea was that these would be interim as you see 
on the cover. These are interim policies and that we would report back to you in six 
months on how they are working. If that is not correctly capturing your concerns, then 
obviously we need to have further discussion about it but that was the intent of these 
particular standards and procedures.  
 
President Melgar: 
Thank you, Director Rahaim. I too had understood that from you, but I have also gotten an 
earful from members of the public. So, we may want to be more cautious about it 
preceding.  
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Okay. 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I like to add one comment, I appreciate your saying it would be interim policy but any 
interim policy only instills bad habits. So, if we come out of the shoot, I would suggest that 
we are really strong in the major improvements this Commission has worked on very, very 
hard to bring on a better track.