7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 10, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Melgar 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I have four questions. First question goes to Director Rahaim. I read in the paper that UCSF 
has secret plans to dramatically expand Parnassus Heights. We have looked at the 
institutional master plan and thought it to be stable. But I read in the paper, though I do 
not know the originator of this -- oh it is actually Mr. Dennis Antenore, former 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 24, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 19 
 
commissioner. That is indeed not true. I will give you the article and I would like to hear 
from you, perhaps in the upcoming weeks of what our position will be on that matter.  
 
My second question is, walking through town I see a lot of expired large meeting 
notification on all kinds of buildings. While I see the new ones and always read them, I stop 
and read old ones which are long overdue, May, June or whatever. And my question is, 
what are the rules surrounding the removal of those old notices.    
 
 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
 
 
I don't know the answer to that; maybe Dan can. 
 
Dan Sider: 
Commissioner, the short answer is that there are no rules. That is something that we could 
explore either legislatively or as a policy matter internally with the department.   
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I think at some point, I think it is a question of building maintenance and appearance. It 
looks tottery and pretty bad. It does not contribute to an active participatory problem – 
way we conduct ourselves here with having proper posters, proper regularly scheduled 
meetings and let these things hang out there. I would like to see that we address that in 
some form.  
 
My third question is, I appreciate receiving staff update on 458 Grove Street. That is the 
operation from an outdoor restaurant with no complaints filed except for one small 
incident. I appreciate the thorough writing of that particular report to us.  
 
And my last question is kind of a little bit funny because I hardly noticed it. Why is public 
comment today being put to the end? That is highly unusual. And I am wondering what 
caused us to do that.   
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The cause, Commissioner, is we are short one commissioner down to six. And our 
Commission President is out. We are aware one commissioner needs to leave early today. 
So, it just threatens our quorum and ability to consider the action items. So, we have done 
this in the past. We don't expect it to be a regular occurrence, but occasionally we do push 
General Public Comment to the end of the agenda.   
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Okay.  It is probably a little bit hard – it is easier for us to understand and support sitting 
here. It is harder I think for the public to understand because they prepare in a certain 
manner of which is just like regular-- 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
We are just put in a difficult situation and short one commissioner out of seven and then 
with absences and other situations. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
 
I appreciate your explanation. Thank you.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 24, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 19