6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 7, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Richards 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Melgar: 
So, I did have a comment. At our last meeting, we got a lot of public comment and then 
subsequently I got a lot of correspondence from the public about the way that we calculate 
the office allocation, space allocation under Prop M. And you know, from folks that I respect 
and trust who had historical information about the intent of the voters when Prop M was 
passed. I have yet to see any formal documentation about the, you know, the beauty contest 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 11, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 15 
 
idea that was brought up. I was not around when we passed Prop M or at least not active 
yet, we’re still in school. So, I want us to actually, you know, look for this.  I imagine 
something that this important would have been formally documented in some policies and 
procedures or some documentation. It's got to be around somewhere. Something this 
important should be. So, I did find a reference to some writing that Marcia Rosen had done 
way back then, but other than that, you know, if anyone's watching or any of the member, 
many members of the public who care about this issue, anybody’s got something in a shoe 
box somewhere it'd be great to actually find it. So, thank you. That's all.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
President Melgar, you're taking the words out of my mouth. I worked in an office where 
many of the buildings we designed were under the beauty contest and a saying to a 
property understand what that meant. Require perhaps revisiting not just the proposition 
itself, that is M, but also how it was meant to be applied. I would like to ask the Commission 
to support that we have a special, put this on our action item list, and have a special 
presentation. I would also like to ask that we add Prop K to that discussion because there's 
many uncertainties particularly for us regarding that issue. Both are propositions which 
were voted in by the voters many years ago, decades ago. Many of us, all of us, were not on 
the Planning Commission nor did we actively participate in many of the informed dialogue 
that went on at that the time. So, I'd ask that the Commission supports that we take that 
and revisit the particulars of both propositions.