8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 17, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT:  
Fong, Koppel, Melgar 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
I wish Ms. Rogers were back in the room because I wanted her to hear this. I don’t know if 
anybody saw this list that came out last night on CityLab. It’s a Urban Planning website 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 31, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
blog and there’s a Chicago doctoral student, this article by Richard Florida and it says - A 
new study of zoning changes in Chicago, this is empirical evidence, finds that they lead to 
higher not lower local home prices while there’s no discernable impact on local housing 
supply. A growing chorus of market urbanists and YIMBYs make the case: Restrict supply, 
and demand and therefore prices go up. So, it follows, liberalizing codes to make it easier 
to build and to permit taller, denser structures will increase supply and cause prices to fall, 
which will then make housing (and expensive cities) more affordable.” It goes on further 
and say, “Yonah Freemark, a doctoral student in urban planning at MIT, has analyzed the 
effects of upzonings in Chicago neighborhoods. He takes the form of a natural experiment 
(the “gold standard” of social-science research project) by comparing an initial set of 
zoning reforms, undertaken in 2013 to encourage development around transit stops,” 
sound familiar? – “with a more aggressive set of reforms from 2015, which expanded the 
upzoned areas and increased incentives for taller, denser development.” Bear with me. 
“First, he finds no effect from zoning changes on housing supply that is, on the 
construction of newly permitted units over five years. As he acknowledges, the process of 
adding supply is arduous and may take longer than five years to register.” We had a 
housing inventory last week or the week before talking about the pipeline to 70,000 units 
who have yet to be constructed. Which I think 58,000 we’ve already entitled.  Some of 
them as long as 10 years ago. “Second, instead of falling prices, as the conventional 
wisdom predicts, the study finds the opposite. Housing prices rose on the parcels and in 
projects that were upzoned, notably those where building sizes increased. The short-term 
local level impact of upzoning are higher property prices but no new additional housing 
construction.”  And I’ll be finishing up here with a couple more quotes from the study. Bear 
with me. This took me completely by surprise this morning.  Completely by surprise. 
“Freemark’s findings are in line with my own thinking (Richard Florida), in his book The 
New Urban Crisis. He argues that although it is important to combat unnecessarily 
restrictive zoning and building codes (whose advocates he dubbed in his book “New Urban 
Luddites”), easing those codes would do little to address housing affordability and might 
actually serve to increase housing prices in the neighborhoods in question, for the simple 
reason that developers would use the land not for affordable housing units but for luxury 
construction. He noted in the markets and the neighborhoods for luxury and affordable 
housing, very very differently. It is unlikely that any increase in high-end supply would 
trickle down to less advantaged groups. Also known as “filtering”. Another economist who 
is more pro-market than he is (Richard Florida), Tyler Cowen, has similarly argued that the 
result of liberalizing zoning codes to allow for taller buildings will likely be more luxury 
housing and more profits for landlords and developers. Freemark emphasized, last line, 
that simply liberalizing zoning for taller buildings and denser development will not 
address the critical need to provide affordable housing for less advantaged people. I think 
that’s the housing we say - housing that actually we really need here, especially in San 
Francisco. He also pointed out the “need for other programs, like more affordable units 
and rent control, which should potentially come with any upzoning.” And finally, the 
punchline is “Upzoning is not a sufficient affordability program in itself.” 
 
Commissioner Hillis 
Thank you. I read that article too. I also read the paper behind it. I mean, he also notes in 
his tweet “upzonings are still probably good for affordability at a regional level” which I 
think we’re gonna talk about soon. But, at the neighborhood you’re looking, a kind of a 
neighborhood level in Chicago, which I think we should be leery of, in not at the regional 
level about supply. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 31, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
It would be interesting to one, share that in writing with others and perhaps if we need to 
have a special meeting to discuss it in more details. Very hard to follow, particular when we 
do not have that piece of writing in front of us. So, if you want to share, that would be a 
good idea. 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
I have the paper behind as well.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
What I would propose, and I know we’re going to be talking about the budget, but I would 
really like to understand the impact of the upzonings since 1990 in San Francisco. We’ve 
upzoned a hundred thousand units, that’s very inclusionary not exclusionary, and I’d like to 
understand, in those neighborhoods like South of Market, and the Mission and some other 
places, what actually did happen just like Mr. Freemark did in Chicago. So that we can 
actually have some empirical evidence in our own city. 
 
Commissioner Hillis 
I think it’s good too we should look at places that weren’t upzoned. 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
That’s great. 
 
Commissioner Hillis 
So, Bernal Heights, my neighborhood, so we can see what the prices did in those 
neighborhoods because I can guarantee you they are similar. 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
Sure, and you need to look at job growth, too.