6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 9, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Fung, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Melgar 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Few things. First of all, the package of Housing Bills. We heard last Thursday that SB 50 got 
put in suspense until January, it has to pass the Appropriations Committee by January 31st. 
There is an article in the Chronicle the next day, modest, I’m sorry, Monday, “Modest 
housing fixes, sold after delay on the key bill.” I'm incredibly disappointed that the 
legislature did not move to advance AB 36 which is the rental registry, which was the 
cornerstone for all these other changes in up zoning and protecting rental property, and 
tenants from speculators and speculation and wrongful evictions. So, I'm incredibly 
disappointed at that. I honestly believe that that really shows true colors. We can't have 
Costa Hawkins reform, we can't have Ellis Act reform, and we can’t even have a simple 
rental registry. So, we’re on our own on this one and I want to work with my fellow 
Commissioners and Supervisors to get that passed. We need it. Without it, we’re going to 
see some bad things happen.  
 
Interesting article in The Washington Post, “How San Francisco Broke America's Heart.” I 
really encourage you to read it. It is a sad state of affairs on what we’ve got in our city 
today. The last line was about a project that we had where a gentleman who owned 
several houses on the same street and turned one of the houses into a gymnasium 
basketball court, for his own personal use. They are actually calling in the article, “San 
Francisco is becoming Monaco.” So, it is a great read.  
 
One other thing, today's Chronicle, “Too, Too Many.” Senator Weiner wants to allow five or 
six cities in the state to approve alcohol consumption after -- serving alcohol after 2:00 AM 
to 4:00 AM. I think we would hear that here if that were to pass because it actually is a 
change to the Planning Code. So, I hope, you know, we would hear that.  
 
And lastly, a most interesting one, “The Bear has been Poked.” Why do I say that? I 
subscribe to a report called The Planning Report and you’re going to see the first of several 
constitutional amendment initiatives to undo state influence in local land-use regulation. 
This amendment comes out of San Diego. I believe it is by one of the persons running for 
mayor. I have never met, talked or communicated with any of these people, but basically 
says, “if the state wants to mandate that cities take additional density, they have to pay for 
the infrastructure.” That was one of the big issues with SB 50 was the state was telling us 
we had to take additional density, but there was no money in order to accommodate that 

San Francisco Planning Commission