2. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• 
Draft Minutes for February 14, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Johnson 
 
3. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I guess a couple of things. We have a river of rain that hit us this week. We also have a river 
of new bills coming out of Sacramento that are going to affect San Francisco. Recently we 
had AB68, which on my first glance at it, actually affects the rent-controlled portion of 
ADUs; AB69, AB587 that allows subdivision of ADUs; SB330 which regulates the size and 
the permitting process on ADUs and other things; then AB1515. So, I just want us to feel 
like we're being overwhelmed. We don't have any idea what these bills are going to -- how 
they're going to affect us. I'm really concerned about AB330 and its effect on some of the 
policies. We have like the flats policy in terms of use size and things and I have met with 
AnMarie Rogers and asked her to please take a look at especially SB330, but these other 
ones are also going to be affecting us, especially the one around rent control. So, we want 
to make people aware of that.  
 
The other thing is two weeks in a row in the Examiner and once in the Chronicle, there was 
an article by somebody from Labor. And they said, we support absolutely building more 
housing, however, we’re going to need between 200,000 and 400,00 additional workers in 
this state to construct them. So, you know, we can approve all we want, but if there's 
nobody to build them, we're going to be in a pickle. So, I just wanted to bring people's 
attention to that. And then lastly, the most funny thing, two weeks ago I think we were 
talking about Plan Bay Area 2040 and I made a comment and said, how can we plan so far 
in advance because we don't know where technology is taking us? The velocity, the 
changes are so big and the velocity so fast, what we think is going to happen in 5 year – 25 
years, we just have no idea. You have to look at transportation network companies, Uber, 
the sharing economy, all of this stuff. And I said I prognosticated about having a futurist. 
So, and I was just joking. I said, well we’re talking about transit around housing, around 
transit corridors. We may be flying in cars by then. And lo and behold, yesterday there's an 
article about flying cars that are being developed. Uber is planning on doing a flying uber 
car, too. So, I mean, I really want to understand we're planning today based on what we 
think is going to happen today, but there are a lot of things happening tomorrow where 
TOD may be moot. Who knows. Thanks.   
 
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Yeah, earlier today, President Melgar and myself, had the privilege of attending a press 
conference with Honorable Mayor London Breed to announce the success of the latest 
directives to increase accessory dwelling unit production. Ourselves, were there along with 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 28, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 7 
 
the Building Inspection Commissioners, Fire Commissioners and a host of other, you know, 
groups within city government, but it was just a really good way to actually put this into 
some context as well, because we were standing in front of six garages that were going to 
be turned into four units, two studios and two one-bedrooms. And, you know, what you 
realize when you go and show up to the actual building, is this is so common because it's 
being done during a soft-story retrofit. And that, you know, the units are on the ground 
level. So, it's going to be a lot more helpful seniors or handicapped people that are just 
going to need access issues and its, I think, the clip is you know, we're seeing numbers of 
over 900 additional units coming through the city's pipeline. And thanks to Planning staff, 
who has been doing a lot of the legwork with the other departments. And the mayor, 
mayor's leadership, we're actually getting a lot more housing built.