5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 3, 2019 – Joint with Health 
• Draft Minutes for October 3, 2019 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fung, Johnson, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Koppel 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Richards:  
 
Interesting enough, as I was looking through my old files for the Fulton Street item on 
today's calendar. I know on our action item list, we have an open action item and 
Commissioner Fung walked right into what I was going to say. I remember when we had 
the NC20 project, which is in 2007. And I remember 2017 saying maybe we need an NC30, 
look at the commercial districts and what's allowed, what’s not allowed. So maybe we do 
an NC33 or an NC34 and we take a look at beer and wine and all these other things that 
think we need CUs for and actually, take a look at the new retail landscape and see what 
today probably should not be CUs that are CUs, etcetera.   
 
President Melgar: 
Ok, so I did have a request for staff. For the last three years that I've been on this 
commission, we have consistently applied a policy of trying to get more housing units 
whenever folks wanted to expand space and we've applied it in different ways. Sometimes 
by requesting an ADU when folks were doing expansion when there were tenants in 
buildings that were wanting to expand. We've been very mindful of tenant protections 
and hopeful to, and wanting to get more units out of any expansion. Especially when it 
affects tenants rather than just space, that will result in you know essentially rent evictions 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 17, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 11 
 
of tenants. And so, I wanted us to formalize that policy, you know, past this commission 
and  also to give a guidance to staff because right now, the way we do it is oftentimes it 
comes to us as a Discretionary Review request and we address it that way. But it doesn't 
address all of the projects that don't get DR’d or that are approved as of right. So, I wanted 
us to formalize and I'm requesting that staff work with the City Attorney to draft a 
resolution for us to vote on so that we can formalize this policy going forward.  
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, I think this harks back to our budget discussion two years ago where we kind of start 
acting like a de facto Rent Board because we are getting lots of emails commenting on 
ADU abuse, where tenants are getting evicted, their services are being taken away from 
them. I talked to Robert Collins on the Rent Board and he said, “well our job only is to 
determine what level of services or what amenities are taken away and adjust the rent”, 
which I don't think is the right answer. So, I come back and I'm going to ask again in this 
next budget cycle that we have a dedicated tenant advocate on staff to look at every 
project through the tenant's eyes to understand how they're impacted. Thank you.