6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for June 13, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fung, Hillis, Koppel, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Johnson, Melgar 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, I wasn’t here last week, I’m going to take a couple of extra minutes.  What’s happening 
across US, it started in Oregon with a rent cap of 7%. I know we have some laws proposed 
in California on protect - the part of the Protect, Preserve, and Produce. New York, while I 
was gone, actually had a sweeping rent law passed. I'll just read a couple of excerpts from 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 27, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
the New York Times from June 15th and just imagine these words happening for California 
and see if you can actually have that great leap of faith that we could get here. “New York 
lawmakers on Friday,” that was three Fridays ago, “passed a sweeping package of rent 
laws designed to dramatically enhance tenant protections and reshape the state’s housing 
landscape, after a months-long battle that galvanized tenant activists and dealt a blow to 
the state's most powerful real estate industry. The laws signaled a seismic shift not only in 
relationship between tenants and landlords, but also in the power balance of Albany.” Try 
to put the word Sacramento in there. “Where deep-pocketed developers had long enjoyed 
access and influence. ‘This is a huge reversal of a decades-long trend toward weaker laws 
and more loopholes and more ability for landlords to make profits,’ said Senator Brian 
Kavanagh. The real estate industry had lobbied fiercely against the proposed changes, 
warning that they would discourage landlords from investing in properties and erode 
thousands of building workers’ and contractors’ jobs.  They spent hundreds of thousands 
of dollars on ad campaigns, hired well-connected lobbyists and pleaded their case directly 
to Governor Cuomo and other top state officials.”  Sound familiar?  “But their appeals met 
skepticism, and sometimes even hostility, from the state’s newly empowered Democrats, 
who took over the Legislature last year for the third time in the last half-century. ‘For far 
too long, this Legislature gave landlords the tools to game the system,’ said 
Assemblywoman Jo Anne Simon, a Democrat from Brooklyn, referring to the years of 
alliance between the industry and Republican lawmakers. In a radio interview on Friday 
before the bill’s passage, Governor Cuomo said that developers who thought they were 
going to get special treatment because they had donated ‘don’t know me at all.’ ‘At the 
beginning of this legislative session, I called for the most sweeping, aggressive tenant 
protections in state history,’ he said in a statement. ‘I’m confident the measure passed 
today is the strongest possible set of reforms that the Legislature was able to pass and a 
major step forward for the tenants across New York.’” Can you imagine that happening in 
this State? I think it’s a dream, but I think we can actually get there hopefully someday. 
Secondly, while I was away, and not coincidentally, we heard the Thursday I was here last, 
the large home piece of legislation proposed by Supervisor Safai on the number of 
bedrooms in a conditional use requirement for exceeding a certain number of bedrooms. I 
don't know where it ended up in the Land Use, if it has been heard yet or not. As well, I 
wasn't here for the marathon demolition hearing, that I’m glad I probably wasn't here for. I 
did watch the whole 5 1/2 hours on SFGovTV on the tape, but, coincidently the next day, 
there is a merge from Sacramento from Senator Scott Wiener SB 592 which was a nothing 
burger bill that started in February on the date of the HCD had to deliver its annual report. 
On March 27th, Senator Wiener morphed it into a cosmetology bill, requiring the Board of 
Cosmetology to update the public profile of a licensee if the licensee’s address changed. 
Then, in June, on September 4th, when Wiener substantially amended SB 50, after it got 
shelved by Senator Portantino. On June 13th, he amended this cosmetology bill replacing it 
in its entirely with some of the text of SB 50 as amended on June 4th. The bill defines the 
definition of housing development project to include single-family homes, ADUs, and 
additions to single-family homes. I would request that this Commission ask staff what the 
impact analysis would be: one, in the workload of the Department, whether it goes down 
or up in terms of making additions to single-family homes, especially bedrooms, 
redefining the definition of what a density is,  it doesn't become a unit anymore, it 
becomes a bedroom, on how this would actually impact our ability to discretionary 
reviews, our approval process, and what the role this Commission and the public actually 
are going to have any more in terms of these additions.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 27, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
There's one other thing in the law that I read that I'm going to note on market rate 
housing. “A city cannot disapprove any project, not just low or moderate but including low 
or moderate and market rate based on density unless the state -- the city finds within 30 
days that all three of the following apply. The density process inconsistent with mandatory 
provisions of the general plan and zoning that cannot be varied by appropriate city 
authority such as the Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator, or Board of Supervisors. 
Two, most provisions of our general planning code can be accepted by variance although I 
think there are very few that actually any of us have power including the Board to actually 
amend or change.” The practical effect, I believe that this clause is to make every project by 
right.  “And three, if the project has adverse impact upon public health or safety -- we've 
been down this road before with the HAA. And the third one is there's no feasible method 
to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the adverse impact of the project.” I read this as an 
absolute utter takeover of all local control for any development project, and I think we 
need to analyze it and understand what the impact is and shed the light of day and have a 
hearing to discuss what this actually is. Thank you.