4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 7, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Richards 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
President Melgar: 
So, I just wanted to announce that we will be losing quorum at five o’clock. So, we're going 
to try to get through the agenda as quickly as we can. But if you have items lower down on 
the agenda, I just want to give you the heads-up that we may possibly continue those. So, 
we will -- I'll do my best to keep that moving. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Fong:   
Thank you. If I can, I made this announcement last week but I'm officially leaving this 
Commission and moving on as the President and CEO of the San Francisco Chamber of 
Commerce next month. But I wanted to just take a second to really thank the Commission, 
the public, staff, commissioners, and if I can reflect just very quickly on eight years and 
three months every Thursday here. And I have made a lot of friends in the public through 
this process and hopefully not too many enemies but appreciate all of that. The purpose of 
I suppose me serving on this Commission was really to serve San Francisco and to help thy 
neighbor. Whether that's a next-door neighbor or whether that’s a cross-town neighbor. 
The personal growth that has come from this, from me over eight years has forced me to 
think and speak out loud in public about things that normally you don't get the 
opportunity to think about. Whether that's design-related things, to take some 
understanding of design, architecture; whether that's large business, which maybe you 
don't have exposure to. Whether that's open space, parks, how they are used in the city, 
public realm, street, transit, cannabis, affordability, housing of all types, not just affordable 
housing. But we need a little bit of everything, bars, nightlife and ultimately our skyline 
and how that is shaped for a very long time. So those are all played roles in my head in 

San Francisco Planning Commission