5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 10, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Koppel 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, I received an advanced agenda for our meeting on February 7th at Mission High School, 
between 4 and 7 and I think -- a couple comments I’d like, I respectfully request President 
Melgar sit with the community folks and try to set expectations on making sure that we 
have a civil dialogue. If you need help on that, let me know. I think the other one is I have 
seen meetings that have kind of gone awry and I really would request, respectfully, that 
we have sheriff deputies there. I don't know how other Commissioners feel but I just feel 
there might be a safety issue.   
 
President Melgar: 
Thank you, Commissioner Richards. We are addressing both of your requests. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Okay great. One last quick item. Governor's housing hammer, you know, carrots and sticks 
to get housing. He wants to withhold transportation funds from SB1 because cities don't 
build enough housing, and I really want to step back to say, the city doesn't build the 
housing. We had the pipeline report last week, 70,000 units in it. Why would you want to 
withhold funds from a city like us? If actually those were built, we probably would be far up 
on the scale of our RHNA target. I think it is very misguided.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 24, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I always target Director Rahaim in these meetings. Question on, while you’re sitting, on the 
regional discussion. The City of Concord in downtown just approved a very large site right 
next to BART to become a soccer training center. And I am wondering why the discussion 
would not be geared towards asking every community to put high-density housing next to 
transportation? Am I missing my microphone here?   
 
President Melgar: 
Director Rahaim, do you want to weigh in?   
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, that is a very good question. I don't know why an individual community 
would do that either except that as you know there is a mixed bag in the region about 
communities that are encouraging new housing and those that are not. And the ABAG 
board unfortunately has no power to compel communities to do that. That is one of the 
challenges we have at the regional plan is that there really isn't any legal teeth to require 
that communities meet the intent of the plan.