4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 4, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I'd like to do a shout out to the Planning Department for an incredible performance at the 
National APA Conference that started last Friday and ended on Tuesday. Just to test basics, 
I actually chose two mobile workshops to anchor myself really in the discussion and see 
how we together really do. What are the on-ground results of what we do, and I chose the 
Mission District Displacement and Stabilization Workshop and the San Francisco Accessory 
Dwelling Units. Those were excellent workshops and I can remove myself from having a 
stake in this discussion but look at it in terms of what are we communicating to others who 
do look for us as a learning laboratory. And I thought the presentations were excellent. 
And I wish in a certain way that some of us sometimes have to benefit to look at the results 
of what we're doing, not to participate just in the process. And I'm seeing that particularly 
with respect to Accessory Dwelling Units, where I was able, being myself quite critical of 
that process, saw three or four real success stories of how it should be done. We mostly 
hear in DR, hear the things of how it should not be done, but I think the Department as it 
set themselves have learned a lot and I wish sometimes Director Rahaim, that the 
Department would make a presentation of what has really worked; what has really created 
results of livable, attractive accessory dwelling units and where do we still have problems 
because we still have not eliminated problems. So, all in all, I was very, very impressed. I 
also participated in a seminar on the SF Cultural District, strategically intercepting 
gentrification. Something which everybody across the country is concerned about, and 
here again, really well presented and a lot to learn and I'm very, very happy to send my 
thank you to the Department in everything they did. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 18, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 9 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
Couple of news worthy item. The Los Angeles City Council 12-0 this week; 12-0 last week 
and this week against SB50, 12-0. I know we voted 9-2 and I guess my question is do we 
know whether the mayor signed it, vetoed it, or pocket vetoed it?   
 
Director Rahaim: 
I’m sorry. I don't know at this point. I've been tied up with the conference. I haven't heard 
the latest news. I can certainly find out.   
 
Commissioner Richards:    
Okay great. And interesting enough there was an opinion piece in the Examiner last 
Thursday, that’s why I didn’t bring it up on Thursday, by Cindy Wu and Norma Garcia.  
Cindy was a former Planning Commissioner. Apparently, she has, they drew a map of the 
Mission and talked about the sensitive communities and how the process works under 
SB50 and it looks like it’s by census tracking. Literally, you can have somebody across the 
street from the census track, in a sensitive community or outside of the sensitive 
community. So when - - and it talks about displacement and how neighborhoods should 
be looked at in their entirety. When we have an update on SB50, if we can at least try to 
understand how this does work, I would really appreciate it. I know there were 
amendments made to the bill, March 11th as well, which weren't in our March 14th review. 
So that would be nice to understand too. One other thing, “As the economy grows, the 
wealth gap widens racially”. San Francisco ranks a miserable 84th out of 100 in US 
metropolitan areas on wealth between races. White folks on average earn $70,200 and 
African-Americans and minorities earn an average of $41,500 and that gap is widening. 
And lastly, I know everybody read this but “Building costs soar to the top” in the Chronicle. 
We're the most expensive place to build -- I believe in the world, even surpassing New 
York’s. So perhaps, all those units that we have sitting in the pipeline are not getting built 
because construction costs are so high at this point.   
 
Commissioner Johnson:    
Thanks. I just wanted to name that this week we got an e-mail stating that the Planning 
Department had 100 percent of existing staff have gone through basic Racial and Social 
Equity training. Which is very exciting and there was an invitation for us as commissioners 
to get trained as well. So, I'm really excited about that being completed and really excited 
for the opportunity of myself and my fellow commissioners to take that basic training as 
we continue to expand our Racial and Social Equity frame works.