8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 18, 2019 – Regular  
• Draft Minutes for July 25, 2019 – Closed Session 
• Draft Minutes for July 25, 2019 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
Jerry Dratler  
*Mr. Dratler stated the Planning Commission did not approve building 
permit 2018.0625.2842 at the July 25, 2019 meeting and requested the 
meeting minutes be revised to exclude the approval of the building permit.  
Mr. Dratler stated the captioned transcript shows it was not clear if a new 
plan was required for 27 17th Ave. Prior to approving the joint motion for 
25 and 27 17th Ave. Mr. Winslow told the commissioners “they could not 
approve the project on the other lot today”. 
Mr. Dratler stated, approving the new construction building permit without 
an accurate boundary line survey would be a violation of Section 107.2.5 of 
the California Building Code. The Architectural Site Survey submitted with 
the plans for 27 17th Ave. is not a boundary line survey. A note in the map 
submitted states a Record of Survey would be required under the California 
Law to establish the property’s boundary lines. 
 
 
Stephanie Peek – Correct the minutes 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Fung, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I have a couple of brief things that I wanted to mention. Over the last three weeks I read a 
book. If you haven't seen this book or read it, I urge you to read it. If there’s one book that 
you read this year, it is called "Capital City" the rise of the real estate state and real estate’s 
involvement in shaping Urban Affairs and Planning. I will read one very small paragraph 
from it. It stuck out to me even though I've got about a hundred little stickers in here on 
things that resonated with me. “With the decline of urban industry as well as the real, an 
aspirational rise of home ownership among working and middle-class people, the demand 
for lower land values comes only from organized renters. While urban tenant movements 
have secured important victories, they face a constant struggle against difficult odds. 
Assessing the political landscape many nonprofit unions and community-based 
organizations determined that the most likely way to secure gains in this situation is through 
political programs that align with actions of real estate capital such as development 
schemes that pair, the construction of luxury housing with a modicum of affordable units. 
Where labor piece steals its secure union status for workers and unskilled developments. In 
manufactories absence real estate holds something approaching monopoly power to shape 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 22, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
the narrative around urban planning and the future of our urban landscape.” So a very, very 
interesting book written by Samuel Stein who is a planner.  
 
Two other things very briefly, SB 330 is now making its way finally to the Governor's desk I 
believe. SB 330 actually gets rid of any demolition controls that a city has as long as a 
replacement structure equals or is greater than the current unit count. So, I know this 
Commission heard in June -- demolition controls, which I think they, we gave a lot of 
feedback -- I wasn’t here on -- negative feedback on it but --SB 330 would really won’t 
negate any of those demolition controls because you can knock a house down, as long as 
you replace it with a house.  
 
And then there is SB 592 that now defines density by number of bedrooms. So, instead of us 
saying, well okay, we can increase density by adding a unit, and that’s what the public policy 
goal is, it is now square footage as we now know that any 10 x 10 unit with a closet can be 
called a bedroom. So, I envision SB 592 and SB 330, and further super sizing San Francisco 
and other localities.