8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 21, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
This is due to the late-night news yesterday.  I heard the unfortunate story that the Golden 
Gate Fortune Cookie Company on Ross Street is most likely going to be forced to be closed.  
Its rent was raised from $1,600 a month to $6,000 a month; and I'm asking the 
Commission, I'm asking anybody who is listening to what I say that the City please find 
ways to support the continuance of small businesses. Particularly when it cuts so close to 
the core which is an institution of Chinatown. It’s an international destination because 
there's no place other than this one.  I strongly urge everybody who is listening to discuss 
ideas of how we help small business.  
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Interesting enough, on Tuesday above the whole headline in the Chronicle, blitz of 
housing legislation.  Lawmakers pushed 200 bills, many likely to upset local governments. I 
guess one of the things that I want to say is, if the state wants to come in and have its own 
Planning Code, at least be organized about it. Some of the bills actually directly contradict 
each other. This allows demo, no this will override it. It's a disaster, it’s a mess. Maybe we 
can have Mr. Starr go there and reorganize the State Planning Code like he did Articles 2 
and 7 here. There's going to be a lot coming here. Interesting enough, Palo Alto put out an 
impact analysis on SB50. I encourage you to all go and take look at that. They actually have 
visuals on, hey, here's what is there now, here’s what going to be there, you know, under 
the new proposed law in the vanilla form, it doesn't include even include the density 
bonus. A really interesting read. The other interesting thing about it is it actually talks 
about the -- the impact and up zoning on the number of additional people per, you know, 
for the city.  The vanilla version of it would actually triple Palo Alto's population. We talk 
about being progressive as a state and we say progressive land-use policies, up zone, up 
zone, up zone. When it comes to the protect piece for tenants I give us an "F" on the 
progressive scale. And the reason is that we have Costa Hawkins, we have the Ellis Act, 
and, you know, now that Prop C is there, all of the legislators can hide behind any type of 
reform but I have to look north to state of Oregon and, who just passed the statewide rent 
control bill last week. I think if California wants to be progressive, the legislators have to 
have the balls to actually do something about the displacement via those laws. And one 

San Francisco Planning Commission