4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I just this morning got an e-mail which announced that 950 Gough Street, Gough and 
Eddy, is breaking ground on January 27th. That is something we have been waiting for, for 
a long time and we put a lot of effort into supporting it. It's the St. Paulus Lutheran Church 
and has a very small presence on Polk Street opening of what I think is 100% affordable 
housing on that site.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Just a something interesting I read in the New York Times this week. It's called 
Opportunities in the Cities Falls to the Educated. Just to sum it up, there is an MIT 
professor/economist, David Autor, who actually is now he’s debunked or he’s been 
surprised at the data that says that people who don't have a college degree typically in the 
past would move to cities to get more opportunity to get jobs and get higher wages and 
what they're finding out now is that really doesn't exist anymore. So, cities are only 
attracting people that are high-wage and high-educated people and what he says is this 
kind of flips everything on its head. These people that have limited opportunities actually 
have more opportunities in rural areas now than they do in cities, because of the high cost 
of living in cities. So, one of the things that the article also talks about is it's hard to attract 
these kind of people to cities even if their jobs still exist because of the high cost of 
housing. So, when we talk about building housing for everybody, we need to make sure 
that we consider building housing for those people at that level of income. One other 
thing that he's uncovered is that people who normally moved away from cities when they 
had -- when they're in prime age life conditions like having children and that, are no longer 
doing that. So that's actually creating more of a demand for people wanting to move to 
cities than people who don't move away. So, interesting article in the New York Times this 
week.   
 
Commissioner Moore:   
There was an interesting thing which you probably all read. Microsoft donated $500 
million in support of affordable housing. For the first time really admitting that the tech 
industry does have an effect on housing and affordability. I think it is very poignant 
comment for this city where we all know is a reality of that particular subject matter.   
 
Commissioner Melgar:   
I wanted to bring up something to my colleagues and the public. So before the December 
break, a new business opened at the corner of 16th and Valencia, inside the commercial 
space of the Maria Alicia apartments, an affordable housing building serving low-income 
families in the Mission. So, Manny’s, it occupied the space that was occupied before by a 
sushi restaurant that had a liquor license and had a higher price point than what Manny's 
has. It is, it didn't come before us because it didn't need a CU it was occupying a space. It is 
a restaurant and a bar, but also a civic space. It has programming that's intended to make 
us all better citizens. It hosts dialogue and civic topics and all of that and it has a little 
corner that has a branch of dog eared books that's curated on progressive politics and civic 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 17, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
life. So, the restaurant employs formerly incarcerated people and you can get lunch for $6. 
And Manny, the owner, is a young gay man who’s from LA. Whose family is from 
Afghanistan. He is an Afghani Jew whose dad basically walked from Afghanistan to Israel 
seeking to escape the Taliban. There are now no Jews left in Afghanistan. So shortly after 
opening, Manny came to his business one morning and found a Star of David graffiti’d on 
the door and the lock box smashed in. With graffiti that said, you know, capital is Zionist 
defacing the business. It happened a couple of times. And then, you know, the protest 
started. So, Manny has been actively negotiating an MOU with United to Save the Mission, 
an organization that, you know, is an umbrella organization that is negotiating community 
benefits in the Mission and doing a very good job at it. And he had agreed to most of the 
community benefits.  
 
Also in December, the Clarion Alley mural project camp reported that the murals depicting 
the struggle of the Palestinian people were defaced eleven times during a one-month 
period. So I just wanted to bring this to your attention because, you know, the struggle of 
oppressed and disadvantaged communities is real. The Mission community's fight against 
gentrification is also intense. But in this country and in our city in particular, there's no 
room for this kind of targeted violence and destruction. We cannot tolerate anti-Semitism 
or any other targeting of people based on their religion, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or 
any other kind of "ism" and we also live in a democratic society where we defend the rights 
of people who have different political beliefs. Although I have to say that Manny is our, 
like, he’s a lefty guy and they're pretty mainstream. So, you know, people have the right to 
exist without fear of violence. And artists have the right to, you know, produce work and 
express themselves and use art-ism as a vehicle to fight oppression without fear of 
violence and having their work defaced. So, you know, this body is often the arbiter of how 
we live in these seven by seven miles and I wanted to bring up the situation for us. Because 
I want to reiterate my support and also defend, you know, the community's ability to 
negotiate community benefits agreements and do it from an authentic perspective 
without fear of folks, you know, usurping the process for violence and I want us also to 
continue to uphold the rights of artists to create and beautify our city without, you know, 
fear of their property and their product and their work being defaced as well. So thank you 
for allowing me to make those comments.  
 
I also wanted to say, as we go into the next item, how much I appreciate Commissioner 
Hillis, President Hillis, for his thoughtfulness, his keen intelligence and his wicked sense of 
humor. I have very seldom worked with somebody who was as funny as you are, but also 
for your mentorship and your support. On a personal level, I really appreciate you and 
thank you for everything you've done.   
 
President Hillis: 
Thank you.   
 
5. 
Election of Officers:  In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the San Francisco 
Planning Commission, the President and Vice President of the Commission shall be elected 
at the first Regular Meeting of the Commission held on or after the 15th day of January of 
each year, or at a subsequent meeting, the date which shall be fixed by the Commission at 
the first Regular Meeting on or after the 15th day of January each year. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 17, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
ACTION:  
Melgar – President; Koppel – Vice President  
AYES:  
Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards