4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for November 21, 2019 – Closed Session 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
 
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
• Draft Minutes for November 21, 2019 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted as Corrected 
 
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to ask the Commission to consider a policy discussion on the following: I see in 
gas stations where we have small service space which is kind of like a tiny little local repair, 
that there are more and more being eliminated in making room to the commercial 
component of retail, expanding into selling liquor and alcohol. Not that the liquor and 
alcohol are much of the issue but I think we are losing important neighborhood based PDR 
spaces. As we are continuing to eliminate gas stations across the city, the ability for 
somebody just to have a quick repair done at their local gas station, including supporting 
small PDR businesses is being lost. We had a discussion about that a few years ago when 
we, at the corner of Steiner and California, a similar discussion, where a huge 
neighborhood support for keeping the service bay, in particular women, said “We don't 
know anybody else. This is the person who we trust with our small car repairs,” and now 
we are systematically seeing an erosion of that particular work element in gas stations. I 
would like the Commission to think about that. I would like us to fold that discussion into a 
broader look at service stations where they are located in serving the city as a whole.   
 
Commissioner Richards:   
To Commissioner Moore's point, I read a few times here about the lack of gas stations in 
Manhattan in that they have to drive across the island in order to get gas or gas-related 
products. When we had the Market-Octavia Plan, somebody brought up the fact that, “Oh 
my God, all the corner gas stations are going to be turned into housing” and I kind of 
laughed at them like well, that's the whole point. And we started talking about a census of 
gas stations. At one point there were 100 something and now there are 70 in other. So 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 5, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
maybe we could actually see the changing phase of how we fuel our cars. And maybe, in 
the policy discussion, look at creative ways like they have in Japan and Europe, where you 
don't have to have a gas station. You can have a remote filling facility or you can have a 
right on the curb pump, something like that, so we can still have a good use of the land. 
But also still -- until carbon-emitting cars are eliminated, we will still be able to service 
those. I think that's a great idea. And it truly should be in part larger of the retail discussion 
that we got on our action item list. And I think that is the last big item that we haven't 
really addressed yet. So just a question, I don't want to regurgitate. So there's an article in 
the paper yesterday, Ruling may Undercut Law on Housing, judge says “San Mateo can 
ignore California’s statute Housing Accountability Act.” I read the article and I got confused 
because there's rulings the charter cities don't have to follow it and trial courts has gone to 
some appellant courts. There's some challenges to SB35 out there. I would love to have the 
city attorney write us a memo on where everything stands, because we get people coming 
up here and saying I'm going to challenge you on x law or y law because you are going to 
cut ten feet off my bedroom. I would really love to understand where all this litigation 
stands.   
 
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney: 
Sure. We have issued several memos on the Housing Accountability Act. And we are 
tracking the San Mateo case. Of note, it's at the trial court and we will continue to track it. 
And we can keep you up to date.   
 
Commissioner Richards:   
Okay. And the Huntington Beach case… 
 
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney: 
Sure.   
 
Commissioner Richards:   
I'll call you. There's a lot – there’s several out there.  
 
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney: 
Okay. Sounds good. 
 
Commissioner Richards:   
One other thing. In order to save time for the December 19th hearing, I canvassed a few 
commissioners and I asked them if they received this memo dated September 10th from 
the Director Hui on the 3847-3849 project. It's addressed to We, Planning Commissioners. 
And nobody that I talked to said that they had received this. What I would like to do is 
hand this into Mr. Ionin along with a set of questions I have so that we can give Mr. 
O’Riordan time to come and ask – to answer the questions, so that we are not burning up 
time here in the commission and to hopefully get this issue resolved on the 19th. But 
nobody has gotten this memo. I think you need to get it. It's addressed to you. And there's 
a lot of questions. So I would like you to distribute this for -- and also have Mr. O’Riordan 
respond to that or bring answers to it. We are giving him two weeks.