4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I just this morning got an e-mail which announced that 950 Gough Street, Gough and 
Eddy, is breaking ground on January 27th. That is something we have been waiting for, for 
a long time and we put a lot of effort into supporting it. It's the St. Paulus Lutheran Church 
and has a very small presence on Polk Street opening of what I think is 100% affordable 
housing on that site.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Just a something interesting I read in the New York Times this week. It's called 
Opportunities in the Cities Falls to the Educated. Just to sum it up, there is an MIT 
professor/economist, David Autor, who actually is now he’s debunked or he’s been 
surprised at the data that says that people who don't have a college degree typically in the 
past would move to cities to get more opportunity to get jobs and get higher wages and 
what they're finding out now is that really doesn't exist anymore. So, cities are only 
attracting people that are high-wage and high-educated people and what he says is this 
kind of flips everything on its head. These people that have limited opportunities actually 
have more opportunities in rural areas now than they do in cities, because of the high cost 
of living in cities. So, one of the things that the article also talks about is it's hard to attract 
these kind of people to cities even if their jobs still exist because of the high cost of 
housing. So, when we talk about building housing for everybody, we need to make sure 
that we consider building housing for those people at that level of income. One other 
thing that he's uncovered is that people who normally moved away from cities when they 
had -- when they're in prime age life conditions like having children and that, are no longer 
doing that. So that's actually creating more of a demand for people wanting to move to 
cities than people who don't move away. So, interesting article in the New York Times this 
week.   
 
Commissioner Moore:   
There was an interesting thing which you probably all read. Microsoft donated $500 
million in support of affordable housing. For the first time really admitting that the tech 
industry does have an effect on housing and affordability. I think it is very poignant 
comment for this city where we all know is a reality of that particular subject matter.   
 
Commissioner Melgar:   
I wanted to bring up something to my colleagues and the public. So before the December 
break, a new business opened at the corner of 16th and Valencia, inside the commercial 
space of the Maria Alicia apartments, an affordable housing building serving low-income 
families in the Mission. So, Manny’s, it occupied the space that was occupied before by a 
sushi restaurant that had a liquor license and had a higher price point than what Manny's 
has. It is, it didn't come before us because it didn't need a CU it was occupying a space. It is 
a restaurant and a bar, but also a civic space. It has programming that's intended to make 
us all better citizens. It hosts dialogue and civic topics and all of that and it has a little 
corner that has a branch of dog eared books that's curated on progressive politics and civic 

San Francisco Planning Commission