4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 11, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fung, Johnson, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Hillis, Koppel 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 25, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 14 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
There are two items. Greatly concerned about reading about 2100 Market Street. Also 
receiving a letter from the Duboce Triangle Neighborhood Association about the adaptive 
interpretation of what was approved as a 52-market rate unit building now becoming a 
furnished corporate rental apartment. I’m looking for the Director’s comments support 
that that is indeed not the type of approvals that we should be stuck with because that is 
not what we approved. 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Yes, thank you Commissioner.  I have heard several comments to that effect. The way that 
the current code works is that anything longer than 32 days, I believe it is, is considered 
normal tenancy. And so the code does not distinguish between 32 day rentals or 5 year 
rentals at its current form.  I do understand that there is some concerns about this – many 
concerns about this and the Board members are taking it up but as of right now, there is 
not an enforcement action that we can take on that.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I have another issue and that is I was greatly disturbed about a vote in San Bruno on a 
project that had 425 units of housing for that community. It was defeated by one vote, and 
while each community makes its own decisions about housing, what I found most 
astounding is that by the numbers. So that's since 2016 San Bruno only has built 119 units. 
The 119 units since 2016, and the actual number based on state-mandated goals is 1,036 
by 2023. That's a very huge deficit to catch up on and simultaneously San Mateo County 
estimated 72,000 jobs between 2010 and 2015. If you use the mathematics, that means 
that every household basically supports 19 jobs. I'm looking at these statistics particularly 
under the significant pressure that we are sitting here every week, the SB 50 and, and, and, 
and we are trying to do as best as we can, while our neighbors get away with 119 units 
since 2016. I can only let that stand in the room, but I think at some point I would like to 
figure out wouldn't there be a state law that first brings everybody else into a comparable 
performance with each other before further restrictions are imposed on us? I'm just asking 
a very naive linear question, but that is what is on my mind.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, I too have those two subject matter comments. I was looking at the fabulous dancer on 
the top of the Salesforce Tower the other day in the Chronicle and then I see Single Vote 
Derails Plan for Housing or Transit. One vote killed 425 units on El Camino Real.  El Camino 
Real in San Bruno. And I’m sitting up here thinking, boy we struggle with like cutting back 
a bedroom because its density. We might not even be doing what I consider the right 
thing for the neighborhood or the community over like little things such as one bedroom, 
and we feel like we’re on the edge of what’s legal and what’s not legal. Here we have a 
whole project being killed. And I’m sitting here thinking, I think we as commissioners really 
need to be circumspect around feeling that pressure over such little teeny things like that 
that make projects, make this city livable in the face of this kind of thing that's happening 
literally right across our border. So, this is a poster child for why we have an SB 50. I mean, 
honestly. And I read this, and I thought, well, poster child for SB 50. Then I came across this 
one which is in my neighborhood literally three blocks away, we approved this I believe 
two or three years ago. So, this one here, I just feel like we're being played, I really do. This 
is an Extended Stay America. This is not a housing project. The more I talk to the 
supervisor’s office, Supervisor Mandelman, the more I realize there is a lot of this going on 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 25, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 14 
 
in all of the projects that we approved. So, this whole idea that we’re solving some kind of 
housing crisis, we're solving a hotel crisis. We're going to hear from some members of the 
community out here on projects we recently approved in the Mission. They are going to 
come to tell us three floors of this project, two floors of this project are hotels. Supervisor 
Ronen is working on interim controls to have a new Land Use designation and the 
Planning Code that cuts right to the heart of this. I’m very circumspect at this point about 
approving any more housing projects without really understanding what the hell is going 
on after we approve it. I think this is atrocious. It’s legal but it isn't right.