8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 24, 2019 – Joint with HPC 
• Draft Minutes for January 24, 2019 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 14, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 16 
 
• Draft Minutes for January 31, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Fong:    
Thank you. I wanted to make an announcement. I have officially resigned from the 
Planning Commission after eight years and two months, but not counting those but...I 
resigned and will take the President and CEO position of the San Francisco Chamber of 
Commerce. I'll have a long 45-minute speech next week, which will be my last week, but 
just very much appreciate this time together. I'll get deep into it, but all the skills and 
education, frankly, that I've learned here in eight years will come over to the Chamber of 
Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce generally is known for promoting business, but I 
think we're in a time where all of San Francisco falls into the Chamber's responsibilities as 
far as transit, housing, land use, street life, etc. And this all comes to play. It's purely from 
education that I've learned here, so thank you very much.   
 
President Melgar:  
Congratulations, Commissioner Fong, we will surely miss you.   
 
Commissioner Richards:    
I just wanted to say when I heard the news I thought, there couldn't be a more perfect 
person for this role. Honestly, because you get what's going on in the city. You've been 
around awhile; your family has been around awhile. And the wisdom that you've 
expressed here in the Commission, I think, really is going to benefit the Chamber of 
Commerce. You're going to be able to understand the pulls and the pushes that the City 
faces, so I wish you nothing but the best of luck.  
 
One other quick one to mention, not to regurgitate old news, but I have kind of a 
connection to make. A high cost in housing cost is re-segregating the Bay Area was in the 
Chronicle recently. And they also had a survey of cities where there was the most diversity 
and they were kind of the outer ring of the Bay Area with the more youth got into the 
central area of the Bay Area, it got whiter. And why am I mentioning this? One, I don't 
think that's a great idea, I think we need to figure out what to do there. But two, there was 
an article in New York Times called The Automation Agenda Hidden by the Davos Elite and 
there was also an article, I couldn't find it, about robotics. It happened in the same week, 
and basically, what it said was economists are now rethinking the fact that efficiency and 
productivity is actually lifting all boats. In fact, they are now questioning the fact that boats 
are starting to sink. If you're educated, you know, and you're in certain industries, your 
prospects are really, really good. But if you have a high school education and you're in an 
industry that's non-automatable, like home health care nurse and things like that, your 
wages are just stagnated. So, whatever we do in order to re-segregate the Bay Area, we 
need to take into consideration the broader social trends around how people can afford, if 
they can afford to live where we want them to live, so that we actually have diversity. 
Anyways, I just made that connection and wanted to share. I also requested that if possible 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 14, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 16 
 
we have Richard Rothstein come and do an informational presentation on The Color of 
Law, if that's something the other Commissioners would like to hear.   
 
Commissioner Johnson:    
I just wanted to say thank you to Commissioner Fong. I think something that you said last 
week during our community meeting about looking for balance, I think, runs true to your 
time on the Commission and your leadership and your leadership style. And that's really 
been a benefit to the Commission, and into the way that you engage with community. I 
really appreciate your thoughtful, personal, yeah, just generous approach to thinking 
about and thinking through the issues that come before the Commission. And I will deeply 
miss your leadership and collaboration, but really excited for this next chapter for you.   
 
Commissioner Fong:    
Thank you very much. 
 
Commissioner Hillis: 
I too wanted to congratulate Commissioner Fong and I mean, like Commissioner Richards, 
when I heard the Chamber job was open, I was puzzled to kind of who they would pick for 
that position, and I think you're a perfect choice for that. So, I'm excited to see you in that 
role and hopefully work with you in that role. But you're also, I think, a perfect 
Commissioner here, so it's sad for us that you're leaving. You’ve been on this Commission 
one of the longest serving members. Certainly, as long as I've been here, and I've learned a 
ton from you. I think your tone, the balance you have, you've kind of set the tone for the 
rest of us and we've learned a lot from you. So, thank you for everything you've done here.   
 
Commissioner Fong:    
Thank you, Rich.   
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you, congratulations Commissioner Fong.  
 
Commissioner Fong:    
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Obviously, we are all proud being somewhat part of your success. 
 
Commissioner Fong:    
Yes. 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Because I do believe the Planning Commission is a great training ground. And I couldn't be 
happier, having worked with you for so long. Also, on what you mentioned in the paper 
yesterday that the small business concerns will be as important as an ingredient of San 
Francisco and that makes me very, very happy and very, very hopeful that we will continue 
to work hand in hand to do what we need to do here.   
 
Commissioner Fong:    
Thank you, Commissioner Moore.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 14, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 16 
 
 
President Melgar:    
So, I will just chime in. I will really miss your kindness. You are a kind and generous person, 
and I appreciate your energy on this Commission. I'm bummed that we're losing you, but 
I'm grateful for the city of San Francisco that we're going to have you in that role. I think 
you're going to be great.  
 
Commissioner Koppel:    
I'll quickly chime in, as well. You were one of the first Commissioners I was able to just talk 
to in the hallway back in the day when I used to attend these hearings on the public side. 
So, privileged to have met you then and sit next to you now. Sorry to see you go, but 
congratulations to you.   
 
Commissioner Fong:    
Thank you, and you're all invited to speak at my funeral.