San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 16, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 8 
 
 
3. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 2, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted as Amended 
AYES:  
Fung, Hillis, Johnson, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Koppel 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Just to the record, Commissioner Fung's name is also incorrectly spelled in our hearing 
agenda. It's spelled as F-U-N-G rather than F-O-N-G.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I believe that is the correct spelling.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Oh, it is the correct spelling? 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
It is. 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
Usually it is incorrectly done the other way.   
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I'm so glad you brought that to my attention. I thought that the entire time I know you. 
Actually, I pressed the button for another matter. I'm extremely pleased to see that the 
Board of Appeals passed a resolution encouraging the establishment of notice 
requirements of all tenants of a residential building when permits are issued to add an 
accessory dwelling unit. This is exactly what we have all been concerned about, and I am 
very grateful that that has happened.   
 
Commissioner Fung: 
I was going to ask the Director to provide some further clarification on the intent of the 
informational presentations, especially on major projects. So, my question is:   are they 
asking -- is the staff asking for initial thoughts from the Commission? And if so, then we 
have nothing to base it on, other than their presentation that day, which makes it a little 
difficult to gather your thoughts.  If you would take that back to the Director.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I will certainly rely that back to the Director. But these are specific to the Central SoMa area 
plan, and the impact with the Prop M allocation. And there have been a series of 
presentations leading up to these before the individual projects, but I will certainly relay 
that back to him.   
 
Commissioner Fung: 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 16, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 8 
 
I know I'm a newbie and trying to catch up.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Very good. 
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Thank you.  I just wanted to commend Supervisors Fewer and Brown for putting together 
legislation to found an Office of Racial Equity. Here at the Planning Commission, we've had 
lots of conversations about the intersection of Planning and Land Use and Racial Justice 
and Equity. And have been undertaking our own efforts in concerts with several city 
departments. And as we know as when you really want to work on Racial Justice and 
Equity, there needs to be real leadership, and the power and ability to implement with one 
voice and with one agenda that throughout the city. And so, just really exciting to see that, 
and just wanted to continue to encourage us in our own efforts around Racial Justice and 
Equity.   
 
Commissioner Richards:   
Just one item to note, I don't know if everybody heard just a few minutes ago, maybe an 
hour ago. SB 50 did not make it out of the Appropriations Committee in the Senate, but it 
was made into a two-year bill, which means we'll be seeing it next year.