6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 9, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Fung, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Melgar 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Few things. First of all, the package of Housing Bills. We heard last Thursday that SB 50 got 
put in suspense until January, it has to pass the Appropriations Committee by January 31st. 
There is an article in the Chronicle the next day, modest, I’m sorry, Monday, “Modest 
housing fixes, sold after delay on the key bill.” I'm incredibly disappointed that the 
legislature did not move to advance AB 36 which is the rental registry, which was the 
cornerstone for all these other changes in up zoning and protecting rental property, and 
tenants from speculators and speculation and wrongful evictions. So, I'm incredibly 
disappointed at that. I honestly believe that that really shows true colors. We can't have 
Costa Hawkins reform, we can't have Ellis Act reform, and we can’t even have a simple 
rental registry. So, we’re on our own on this one and I want to work with my fellow 
Commissioners and Supervisors to get that passed. We need it. Without it, we’re going to 
see some bad things happen.  
 
Interesting article in The Washington Post, “How San Francisco Broke America's Heart.” I 
really encourage you to read it. It is a sad state of affairs on what we’ve got in our city 
today. The last line was about a project that we had where a gentleman who owned 
several houses on the same street and turned one of the houses into a gymnasium 
basketball court, for his own personal use. They are actually calling in the article, “San 
Francisco is becoming Monaco.” So, it is a great read.  
 
One other thing, today's Chronicle, “Too, Too Many.” Senator Weiner wants to allow five or 
six cities in the state to approve alcohol consumption after -- serving alcohol after 2:00 AM 
to 4:00 AM. I think we would hear that here if that were to pass because it actually is a 
change to the Planning Code. So, I hope, you know, we would hear that.  
 
And lastly, a most interesting one, “The Bear has been Poked.” Why do I say that? I 
subscribe to a report called The Planning Report and you’re going to see the first of several 
constitutional amendment initiatives to undo state influence in local land-use regulation. 
This amendment comes out of San Diego. I believe it is by one of the persons running for 
mayor. I have never met, talked or communicated with any of these people, but basically 
says, “if the state wants to mandate that cities take additional density, they have to pay for 
the infrastructure.” That was one of the big issues with SB 50 was the state was telling us 
we had to take additional density, but there was no money in order to accommodate that 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 23, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
growth. This actually requires the state to do that. It also requires the state to pay the 
developer fees, which is quite an interesting thing. So, the state is on the hook to bring the 
transportation up and also pay the developer fees. I don't know where this is going to go, I 
understand it’s going to go for title and summary then will be circulating around for the 
900 some 1,000 signatures it needs. But again, first, the bear has been poked. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Fung: 
I would like to announce that I will be not attending the June 6th meeting based upon 
long-term scheduling as I try to move everything from Wednesday to Thursday.  
 
Commissioner Hillis: 
Just to follow up on some of Commissioner Richards’ comments, I think it is unfortunate 
the state tabled some of these housing bills, especially SB 50 that I think generated a lot of 
good debate on what we all need to do to solve the housing crisis and the affordability 
crisis that we are in. I thought it was actually a good debate, and I think municipalities 
were having that across the state, and the fact that kind of one person at the state level 
could stop that or other bills, I think is unfortunate. But I think, you know, in reading that 
article also Commissioner Richards, which I think is probably the 600th iteration of that 
article that we can all read. The question is, what do we do? You know, and I think that’s a 
big question. And I think it would be great to have a hearing here on, kind of, if SB 50 is just 
on hiatus or if it’s going to come back, or, you know, if we have local control what do we 
do. I think we have done a lot in the past couple of years in rezoning certain areas of the 
city, but other areas haven’t seen a lot of development. And I think they are big questions 
we need to start or to continue to explore. We have brought up ideas like the residential 
expansion threshold which I think could be brought back and changed and modified so we 
are encouraging density being maximized and not single family, large single-family homes 
to be built. What do we do about the pipeline of projects that awaits construction? I think 
we need to take a serious look at RH-1 in having at least a minimum of RH-4 density across 
the city. How do we fund affordable housing in the city and looking at real solutions like a 
parcel tax or changing Prop 13, but I think we’ve got to give the policymakers, you know, 
some of these tools and have input on it, on how we solve the housing crisis.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Just one other thing. I met with the Director of long-range planning, AnMarie Rodgers 
yesterday, and we went over all the bills that the Director I think was in the CASA package. 
There are two bills that concerned me. One is SB 330 which I believe it also concerns city 
staff. I would like to have some type of a very brief briefing on what the impacts are and 
understand that it would stop the Central SoMa plan if it’s enacted as-is right now. There is 
another bill I call a “sleeper bill,” it takes the fourplex issue and makes it by right across the 
state. I know, the ABAG Committee reviewed it because it was shaded in orange, but it is a 
sleeper bill that nobody is paying attention to but basically takes a piece of SB 50 and it’s 
an a--, I’ll get it to you. It is an assembly bill, but it is on the list that was provided. And then 
lastly, because we have these big Central SoMa office projects coming, I request that we 
have a two-week advanced packet distribution instead of a one-week and I would offer 
that through the chair if she could consider that.   
 
President Melgar: 
Yes, thank you. Commissioner Richards. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 23, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Is that a yes?   
 
President Melgar: 
Yes.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Okay. 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Just as a fair warning, the first projects are coming to you in two weeks and I am afraid we 
are not going to have those packets ready today.  
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I defer to the chair.  
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
We can try to do that in the future rounds but the first projects are coming to you, the first 
project I should say, is coming to you for action in June 6th and staff is not prepared to have 
that in the packet today, just so you know.   
 
President Melgar: 
Okay, thank you.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I defer to the chair.