8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 28, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
New York Times two days ago, “Lawmakers Support ‘Pied-a-Terre’ Tax on Multimillion-
Dollar Second Homes.” The movement is to look at homes over $5 million second homes 
and tax them. If anybody wants to read the article, I'll pass it around.  
 
Commissioner Richards:    
Two things. First, interesting enough, the Court of Appeals actually affirmed Santa 
Monica's right to regulate short-term rentals which is a win for local decision-making. 
Hopefully, it will withstand any challenge in the future or any onslaught by Sacramento. 
And interestingly enough we had the Legislator Analyst Office report on the housing crisis, 
I think it was 2015 or 2016 was spurred. These avalanche of bills, one of which we're going 
to hear today. Interesting enough, last night, somebody forwarded to me the LA report on 
CEQA and its impact on housing production. So, look for a slew of bills changing CEQA in 
the future, folks.  
 
Commissioner Johnson:    
Thank you. So, last week, we had a troubling case come before us in the discretionary 
review, 120 Varennes, which was the unfortunate case of a family, a long-term family that 
was illegally displaced. In an effort -- that came before us in an effort to develop property. 
And I think, you know, unfortunately, it is not rare that we hear those cases, and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 14, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
fortunately, we have partners like Chinatown Community Development Corporation that 
brought to us the long tenant history and created a paper trail of what actually happened 
to the family that was not there because of illegal things that were done on that property. I 
think as we -- and I think about the future, whether it's SB50 or other things, what is clear 
and what always happens are, what we always bring up in these conversations is the need 
for stronger capacity to uphold tenant protections. And during the budget discussion, we 
had talked about the idea of setting aside budget for a dedicated person within the 
Planning Department to focus on tenant protections. And I want to renew that call 
knowing that we actually want all planners to have all the capacity that they need to really 
understand what is happening to tenants. And knowing that we are going to need to 
begin to track where people and how people are renting property, especially if SB50 
passes. I think a good first step would be dedicating staff to developing that arm of work 
for the Department.  
 
Commissioner Richards:    
So, to that end, I believe that two years ago we asked for that position. We didn't want to 
be prescriptive about it and it ended up being cut. I'm going to renew Commissioner 
Johnson's push for that position. And to that end, Commissioner Johnson and I were 
planning on meeting with Supervisor Fewer who chairs the Budget Committee at the 
Board, to ask for that give, as well as additional FTE for Citywide Survey, because we need 
to make sure the other 75% of the city is surveyed and identified for developers so that 
they can streamline the pre-entitlement process, as well as protect historic resources.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
In order to help in that effort, there are the groups in the city who are discussing rental 
registration which is done in other cities, not just in the United States, but also across the 
world. It's a very healthy tool to really put to record who is renting and make it a broader 
accessible database, which has perpetuity.