7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for December 5, 2019 – Closed Session 
• Draft Minutes for December 5, 2019 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Richards 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to ask why States Street was on consent. Typically, housing projects are not. No 
answer necessary. The second comment is I would like the Commission to take a very close 
look at the package submitted for 196 States Street which I consider to be an exceptionally 
well-put together package. It should raise the bar for how we look at packages. And that's 
why I ask that each of you pull out the package and look at it. Those would be my only 
comments.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 19, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I had an inquiry for Director Rahaim and I know he's not here but I did talk to him about it 
yesterday and told him I would be raising it today. So, hopefully you can convey this to 
him. And that has to do with deciding whether or not the staff can present more 
information, current information to the Commission on the issues of displacement and 
gentrification. There's four places where I feel like additional information would be really 
helpful. The first is presentation of the data that's available on the causes and effects and 
the impacts and what you have been seeing. Second is the community, what you are 
hearing from the community activists in the areas that undergo the most impact from the 
issues of displacement and gentrification. The third is some kind of analysis as to how the 
regulatory system that was put in place a number of years ago to deal with these issues is 
actually working or not working. And then the fourth is guidance about what changes, if 
any, might be suggested either to guidelines or regulations or the planning code, if in fact 
we feel like the goals or the intent is not being accomplished based upon the data and the 
community group input.   
 
 
 
Jeff Joslin: 
I'm confident that you just communicated that to him directly. He's unable to be here 
today, but I suspect he's there. But I will so communicate.   
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
And I -- what we had talked about is, at least my hope, and he thought he could do this 
before he left because it feels like to start this with the new director, I would really like to 
understand where we are on these issues before he moves on.   
 
President Melgar: 
Thank you, Commissioner Diamond. So, I will just chime in and say that one of the things 
that we have been working on as a Commission was -- and that was outstanding in the 
work plan was some methodology around racial impact and economic impact. And so the 
Department has done a lot of work in that, but we haven't quite attached a methodology 
for assessing the impact of development, racially and economically. And so some of us 
have been pushing for that. And thank you for having your voice. That's something that's 
been needed. And in fact, we have had this conversation about density and supply and 
demand and looking after the passage of the Housing Accountability Act. There has been a 
call about being able to quantify, like have a Housing Accountability Act score. And some 
of us have also said that along with that, we need some kind of scoring system or 
methodology for assessing the racial and economic impacts of development in all 
communities, but particularly those that are facing gentrification and displacement. So I 
thank you for saying that. I think that we need something.   
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
So, I want to acknowledge, I know a great deal of work has gone on in this area, both by 
the Department and the Commission. And I would just like to know where we are so that 
as we make decisions going forward, I understand the context.   
 
 
 
President Melgar: 
Yes. And what I was going to say that there has been a deal of work, but we still don't have 
what you are asking for. So, I wanted to also chime in and say I was reading this fascinating 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 19, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
push in the city of Philadelphia to address the issue of the loss of canopy in Philadelphia.  
Apparently, they've lost something like a quarter of their tree canopy in the last ten years 
for various reasons, But they actually did the data analysis, and they put together a plan. 
And we have had efforts in San Francisco here and there. We did have the Planning 
Department staff come and talk to us about biodiversity in the city, which is really great. I 
would really love to know where we're at with our canopy in San Francisco and touching 
back on the issue of communities that are underserved. We do know that the urban 
canopy suffers in low-income communities, and that it has an effect on the heat 
generation in those communities and also all sorts of other stuff from run off, but it would 
be great to have some data on that as well. I noted when we saw that Calle 24 plan that 
those ficuses are in all the pictures because they are so beautiful, they are also at risk. So, I 
think that accounting for the canopy is also an important thing when we’re planning for 
communities.   
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Also just following up and thank you for bringing that up, Commissioner Melgar. There 
was an article about environmental inequity as it relates to Los Angeles. Tree canopy in Los 
Angeles is obviously very lush and very dense in those areas [inaudible]. However, in dense 
neighborhoods where the basic needs zero or 3-foot property line development, there’s 
hardly any tree coverage. And as temperatures are rising, there is a real, clearly evident 
inequity about how planting and tree canopy is applied. That is a recent article about Los 
Angeles. If you want to look it up, you can probably Google it.