4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 7, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Richards 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
President Melgar: 
So, I just wanted to announce that we will be losing quorum at five o’clock. So, we're going 
to try to get through the agenda as quickly as we can. But if you have items lower down on 
the agenda, I just want to give you the heads-up that we may possibly continue those. So, 
we will -- I'll do my best to keep that moving. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Fong:   
Thank you. If I can, I made this announcement last week but I'm officially leaving this 
Commission and moving on as the President and CEO of the San Francisco Chamber of 
Commerce next month. But I wanted to just take a second to really thank the Commission, 
the public, staff, commissioners, and if I can reflect just very quickly on eight years and 
three months every Thursday here. And I have made a lot of friends in the public through 
this process and hopefully not too many enemies but appreciate all of that. The purpose of 
I suppose me serving on this Commission was really to serve San Francisco and to help thy 
neighbor. Whether that's a next-door neighbor or whether that’s a cross-town neighbor. 
The personal growth that has come from this, from me over eight years has forced me to 
think and speak out loud in public about things that normally you don't get the 
opportunity to think about. Whether that's design-related things, to take some 
understanding of design, architecture; whether that's large business, which maybe you 
don't have exposure to. Whether that's open space, parks, how they are used in the city, 
public realm, street, transit, cannabis, affordability, housing of all types, not just affordable 
housing. But we need a little bit of everything, bars, nightlife and ultimately our skyline 
and how that is shaped for a very long time. So those are all played roles in my head in 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 21, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 10 
 
processing each one of those items and each one of those topics. I have learned even more 
patience, more tolerance, have developed a thicker skin, specifically from some people 
more than others.  And negotiating skills that I think will take me into my next chapter 
here. And if I can just leave a little bit of thought. I was thinking about how to wrap this up, 
and as of late, we noticed people are grabbing things. Whether they're grabbing photos at 
Instagram or selfies of the Golden Gate bridge, whether they're grabbing sand dollars from 
Ocean Beach, whether they're grabbing eucalyptus seeds from the Presidio and putting 
them on their dashboard to prove they’re San Franciscans and to prove they’re 
Californians. People are grabbing land, people are grabbing a single bed in a room shared 
with four other people, people are grabbing on to history of San Francisco, and people are 
trying to make claims of being the ultimate San Franciscan. I leave asking that everyone 
consider grabbing your fellow San Franciscan because that really is what the city is made 
of, has been made of and that's a citizenry of joining hands with people who are not like 
you, don't look like you, don’t think like you, don't have the same background but yet you 
can learn from each other and bond together to create a better city. So, I leave with you 
that and thank you very much for the opportunity.  
 
President Melgar: 
Christine -- I'm sorry, I can't control the speakers from my screen. So, you guys just take 
yourself off after you speak for now. Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Koppel:    
I'll just say a quick few words. They don't make them like this very often. If you need to look 
at his resume, I'm sure that would do the talking for you. His accolades and his 
achievements are just second to none and I don't think anyone embodies the spirit 100% 
of San Francisco in general as Rodney Fong. And I'm extremely mad that as soon as I got 
elected Vice President, he's leaving. So, I only got to sit next to him for only about four 
hearings, which is not enough for m but I wish you the best and in this small city, we'll 
probably run into each other sooner than later and looking forward to that next time.   
 
Commissioner Fong:   
Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Hillis: 
Again, thank you. I know we thanked you last week but you deserve probably two rounds 
of thanks. You've been a mentor to us all and kind of a model of not only what a 
commissioner is, but I think by your speech, what a San Franciscan is. So, thank you very 
much.