San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 10, 2019 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for December 13, 2018 
• Draft Minutes for December 20, 2018 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – Inaccuracy in December 20, 2018 minutes 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fong, Hillis, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Johnson 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I looked at the advanced calendar and I was very pleased to see that we are having a joint 
meeting with Historic Preservation in a few weeks. I would like to ask that for the New 
Year, we also schedule a follow-up meeting with DBI, which we had said we would do. And 
we also would schedule a meeting with Rec and Park, just to re-establish common ground, 
meet new commissioners if there are new ones etc., etc. I think it is a good practice at the 
beginning of the year and I ask that we do that expediently in the first quarter.   
 
President Hillis: 
Okay. And I think too, we got that demolition ordinance coming up, that Supervisor 
Peskin…there’s probably -- I don't know if there is time within that to meet with DBI but it 
would be good because – to some of the issues we had with them were surrounding that.   
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I think we have an informational hearing scheduled on the demolition ordinance. I 
think at the end of this month. I'm not sure we could get a Commission -- a joint hearing 
scheduled by then but we can try to get one scheduled before you take action on that 
ordinance. 
 
President Hillis: 
Okay. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I agree with Commissioner Moore. I would like that. I just wanted to comment. 
Commissioner Hyland is a friend of mine. We live very close together, by each other. We 
actually put a list together of topics that we suggest that the joint commission hearing 
have. I'll type that up and send that to you. We did that over the break. Just one item today 
- I got a card in the mail from the California Preservation Foundation, which I've got all the 
time, but there was an event happening which I'm going to leave early for on the 24th.  
And it is about Historic Places and Well- Being. And I thought, they’re tying health issues to 
loss of historic buildings? And actually, even the panel is being facilitated by Dr. Raymond 
Neutra, will look at the real impacts and the loss of historic places can have on health and 
well-being of near-by residents. And Mr. Neutra is a medical doctor, former Chief of the 
Division of Environmental Occupational Disease Control of the State of California 
Department of Public Health. So, interesting topic, I'm going to go to it and will report back 
on that. I've never, ever thought there would be a connection between health and historic 
preservation. It was just too far out to even imagine but somebody's bringing it up.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 10, 2019 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13