5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
The long flood of e-mails on 3333 California Street make me wonder if it would be making 
sense to have a public presentation of this project, ask for continuance of approvals, 
because I have a feeling that there are so many contradictory interpretations of what it is, 
and somebody may not really give this project justice. So, I would like to ask if, whether or 
not other commissioners feel the same way. And, as to whether or not it would make sense 
to ask for full presentation, not just five minutes but give the architect, applicant 15, 20 
minutes. It is a very complicated project to fully explain of what they are trying to do.  
 
President Melgar: 
So, I think it is a complicated project. I want to keep the project moving. I would like to 
have everyone on the public understand what the project is. So perhaps, you know, we can 
talk about what the presentation looks like and what is entailed and prepare for it so that, 
you know, folks get what they need.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
If we would give them more time, perhaps that would help. I myself had a long meeting 
with the architects and the developer, there was actually three architects. And I have to 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 29, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
admit that certain things, subtle details, good details also had slipped my attention 
because the project is quite complex.  
 
Commissioner Hillis:    
Yeah, I mean I want to hear this next week. I mean, it is clearly, you know, it’s obviously 
been kicking around for a long time. I have met with neighborhood groups on this and 
have gotten a feel for where they are going on it as well. But I think, you know, we owe it 
to everybody to hear this and not prejudge whether we should continue or not. We can 
certainly continue it if we think there are questions, but I think we should move ahead and 
have this hearing next week.  
 
Vice-President Joel Koppel:    
I am in agreement with Commissioner Hillis. I still would like to kind of keep it on calendar 
as agendized. But I am open to maybe an extension on their presentation time and efforts 
just for clarity.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I would agree with that. The developer himself have expressed questions to me that why 
can't I get more time? I said it is just a way that have been giving to everybody except you 
didn't have the opportunity to independently give a presentation which other people do. 
Perhaps just by Director Rahaim changing a little bit of the timeframe in which they 
present, perhaps that would help.