5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 11, 2019 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 25, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Richards:  
Yesterday was a big day in Sacramento in that SB50 got out of its second committee but it 
had major modifications and really look forward to having Planning staff take a look at all 
the amendments and give us maybe another informational if the president and the officers 
agree. I think it’s a lot more quantifiable in that they actually set a number on the amount 
of units per parcel, so I think we can quantify a lot easier rather than what can potentially 
can and what can't be. Secondly, I was away for a week for the Easter break, and I was 
catching up on my reading, and actually, Liam Dillon from the LA Times caught my 
attention, “California housing bill targeting wealthy cities could rezone nearly all of Palo 
Alto.” I started reading it. It’s kind of an interesting article and it starts kind of wondering in 
to what it does for LA. Then, at the very end, I almost fell off of my seat on the plane 
because they actually quoted Richard Rothstein who wrote The Color of Law: A Forgotten 
History of How Our Government Segregated America. And I was interested to see, hear 
what he had to say, and he actually said, “allowing apartments in communities like Palo 
Alto is necessary but does not do enough to resolve long-standing inequities.” And he's 
quoted, “If that’s all that’s done, it will increase housing opportunities for those who can 
afford market-rate housing, even smaller market-rate housing,” Rothstein said. “It doesn’t 
include opportunities for low-income African Americans or low-income people in general.” 
So, I thought that was an interesting coming from the source of what a lot of these 
equitable communities is all about.   
 
Vice President Koppel:    
There’s an article in this week’s Chronicle titled “San Francisco’s Big Buildings to Take a Big 
Step in Reducing City’s Emissions,” so I wanted to give a shout out to Mayor London Breed, 
Mayor's Office of Sustainability, Department of Environment. They've also been working 
with the SFPUC and the CPUC to address issues like climate change, global warming, which 
are especially important to cities like us with sea level rise because we're pretty much 
surrounded by water. Interesting thing is a lot of these downtown large buildings 
obviously use a lot of energy, but they don't have the potential to cover their roofs with 
solar panels because they are on such a small footprint. So, it's going to be a challenge but 
it’s going to be an interesting process to check in but we’re going to make our buildings 
more efficient and how they use their energy just to, you know, take it easy on our climate 
and we have to do our part here. So, thanks to Mayor Breed.   
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I’m picking up on what Commissioner Koppel is saying. New York is basically at the verge 
of not allowing any high-rise glass façade buildings anymore. How that exactly will play 
itself out I do not know. But it is an interesting idea to start really looking at the 
contribution that all buildings, particularly high rise fully glazed buildings make to 
environmental issues. The cure is to figure out how San Francisco will pick up on that 
because we have basically all of Rincon Hill, all of our new residential buildings even are 
mostly fully glazed buildings. So, we'll be looking for the director to take the lead on that.   
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 25, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13