9. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 18, 2019 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Fung, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Melgar 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 2, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
 
10. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to welcome Commissioner Fung to the Planning Commission. Thank you for 
joining us.  
 
Commissioner Fung: 
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I second that. I can’t wait to work with you, Commissioner Fung and now you'll get to 
experience what it's like when we send something to the Board of Appeals and it gets 
altered. I do have some other comments though.  It’s just tongue-in-cheek, of course. I’ve 
mentioned last week about the quote by Richard Rothstein in the LA Times about the fact 
that adding more housing is not going to help communities of concern because the people 
in the communities can't actually afford the housing. I don't know if you recall that or not. 
And then I was a little bit floored this week on the Sunday New York Times on the front 
page, there was an article called “The Neighborhood's Black. The new Home Buyers are 
White”. And it talked about diversity and the two kinds of diversity and they said there is 
unstable diversity and stable diversity. Stable diversity is where minorities move to the 
suburbs and they get a mortgage and they, along with their peer groups out in the 
suburbs, earn the same amount of money. So, they are rooted in the community and 
they're invested in the community and they're equal. It's equitable because they all afford 
the same house, they all got a mortgage. However, the reverse is true when white folks 
move into black neighborhoods. They create unstable diversity. And interestingly enough, 
from the article, there's a graph, if you look online and I'll send to Secretary Ionin the link 
because there's an interactive graph. It says, “It's far more rare in America that 
neighborhoods have become more diverse because they have shifted from the left to the 
distribution towards the center.” Meaning white folks move into black neighborhoods 
rather than black folks moving in to white neighborhoods. “In other words, because white 
residents have moved into neighborhoods where predominantly African-American and 
Hispanics live. Our project at the New York town is focused on the small but growing 
number of places experiencing such change. There are about 1400 such census tracks”. 
Remember, we're dealing with, like SB 50 there’s only one census track, not the Mission, 
it’s census tracks within the Mission. So, you may have a census track to cross the street 
from a census track that is included in the community of concern and some that aren’t. As I 
read the amendments to SB 50 yesterday. “There are about 1400 such tracks in America 
that have changed that way since the year 2000, home to nearly five million people. That's 
a relatively small share of all neighborhoods but these places embody a deep tension at 
the geographic center of many cities. White households that have historically avoided 
black neighborhoods, in particular, show a growing willingness to live in those 
neighborhoods. Many scholars would say that that's a mark of progress. However, but with 
the arrival of these white households who have on an average much higher incomes than 
the residents around them, tends to unleash rapid change in the housing market that can 
threaten long-time homeowners and especially renters. The economic reality runs head-
first into the desires of some residence and city officials to build more diverse and 
equitable communities. In many neighborhoods the market forces are simply more 
powerful.” So, this whole idea about global capital and market force and how it would 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 2, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
actually shapes and affects folks who are moving into neighborhoods and gentrifying 
them really has been borne out by what the New York Times actually had in on Sunday. 
And I would encourage anybody to actually have the time to take a look and read it. And I 
know we’re going to be talking about CASA later, but in terms of, you know, taking a pause 
on communities or census tracks, market forces and community planning. There’s going to 
have to be a really strong counter balance to market force. It’s basically saying that market 
forces you can’t really counter them. They’re just overwhelming. So, very very interesting 
article on Sunday, in the New York Times on the front page.