4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for September 5, 2019 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 19, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 17 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Fung, Koppel, Melgar, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Johnson 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
President Melgar:    
So, I will just take a minute to thank commissioner -- former Commissioner Rich Hillis for 
his time and his service. As president last year, I think he did an outstanding job at bringing 
us all together and setting a very clear policy priorities and I really appreciate that about 
him. I also very much appreciated his keen intellect and his outstanding sense of humor. I 
think I have worked with very few people who are as funny with a very dry and intelligent 
wit as Commissioner Hillis and I'm really grateful to have had this time on the Commission 
with him. So, thank you, Commissioner Hillis, for your many years on this Commission.  
 
Commissioner Richards:    
I'll do a mea culpa as well to Mr. Hillis and I -- I became friends with Commissioner Hillis. I 
think he's an incredible guy. Most of the time, we don’t agree, some of the time we do. But 
we still are able to tell each other to go to hell and then go out and have a drink after the 
hearing and celebrate the fact that we have come to a decision as a commission.  
 
Couple of other things. The legislative session has ended in Sacramento. I just received this 
morning, Los Angeles Today, thorough analysis of SB 330 and what it would do to all of the 
processes in Los Angeles. We just sat here with a continuance request from a Supervisor. I 
would like to understand, based on all the ways we approve projects here, including such 
things as 650 Divisadero which was continued fourteen times. How this law affects us, how 
this law affects public input and democracy? And how this law affects other things like 
Historic Preservation. Staff has already done a great job with the bigger piece of SB 330. 
They did an update on the smaller piece of SB 330 as amended. Now it's final and it’s 
sitting on the governor's desk ready to sign, but we don't know what the actual impact is. 
And I would really hope that we do it exactly how our processes are followed, such that, 
what is included in a public meeting. A Prop K shadow hearing at the Rec and Park 
Department, is that included in a De novo hearing? Is an appeal included in the De novo 
hearing? We really need to understand this. I'm not sure exactly what this does. I'd like to 
form an opinion on it based on department's fact on what a typical project requires in 
order to get it passed. And also, the fact that determining -- they're turning up the Permit 
Streamlining Act and they're requiring historic resources to be identified within 30 days. 
I'm not sure we even have the headcount or staff to be able to implement these things. So, 
I would also like to understand what it's going to do to the Department in terms of what its 
impact is on headcount. Take a look at LA One, it's a pretty good exhaustive one and I 
really think that that plus the one we did, shouldn't be a big burden to us to do.  
 
One other thing, it seems like we are maybe coming a bit to our senses and I have to say 
The Chronicle, I don't think has always been at its senses. This morning's editorial, I'm not 
sure if everybody read it. I know Commissioner Moore says everyone reads the paper, but 
sometimes people don’t read the Chronicle editorials because they dismiss them out of 
hand. But President Trump was in San Francisco. He railed on the fact that we've got 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 19, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 17 
 
homeless, we’ve got needles in the storm drains and yah di yah diya. Yet he’s not offering 
solutions in terms of additional money. The Chronicle has been coming out against 
California’s strict and environmental regulations combined with the serious doses from the 
editorial Nimbyism. They're major contributors to the housing crisis. This is their line, “but 
while there is overlap between our housing and homelessness crisis, they aren't 
necessarily the same thing.” So, here's the punchline, “There are excellent reasons to 
increase housing development but doing so isn't going to solve the homelessness 
problem.” You can't build a million-dollar condo and expect the person living on the 
streets to be able to afford it. They go on to say, “homeless people aren't in a position to 
compete for market rate housing.” Bingo. Maybe there is actually some place in the middle 
where we actually can meet and it's not just the damn supply-demand problem as we've 
been being spoon-fed. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I wanted to second and chime in on your thank you to Commissioner Hillis. He will be 
missed. I have to pick the subject which really struck me. He is the funniest person I've ever 
met, particularly in a public forum. He's the funniest. We always agree to disagree, and we 
were good friends, we were respected colleagues. And I think in his triangulating into 
often a different realm, also based on the significant amount of experience, he created just 
the tension in the commission discussions that I really appreciated. I'll miss him and I wish 
him the best of luck whatever his next step will be. 
 
Commissioner Koppel:    
I'm also going to make comments along the same lines. Hopefully it's not me but -- 
Commissioner Fong, now Director Rahaim, now Commissioner Hillis? I don't know if I have 
anything to do with that, but they’re -- they usually sit next to me when they leave. But no, 
I wanted to send a personal thanks to Rich and everything he’s done for the Commission, 
for the City. He's taught me a lot and his experience and his time through many 
departments through the city will be greatly missed. And hopefully we will get a good 
replacement for him. 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
Perhaps we should all have training as a comedian in Chicago. It may help things in our 
discussions. This is the second time now that Commissioner Hillis has resigned while on 
the Commission I've been involved with. And so, I wish him the best. 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
There is a pattern there. 
 
President Melgar:    
Okay, I will just end the comments by apologizing for not being here last week while you 
guys were talking about the Balboa Reservoir Project. It is something that I really care 
about but I just wanted to -- just bring to your attention, my bedtime reading this week is 
a book called "The Road to Resegregation," by Alex Schafran, who is a professor of 
Planning at UC Berkeley. He's got a lot of great ideas in this, brilliant and meticulously 
researched book about Planning in the Bay Area. But one of the things that he talks about 
is about how our fragmented Planning system has reinforced patterns of racial segregation 
in the Bay Area because we approve Transportation and Planning, you know, and office 
and things in different departments, different jurisdictions and certainly different 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 19, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 17 
 
municipalities. And that has reinforced the patterns that we as a society have chosen to 
prioritize.  
 
So, I was thinking about this as I was watching you last week, because we are, you know, 
adding housing, as we need to. We're adding affordable housing in the west side, like we 
need to do through density but yet the Transportation decisions are lagging woefully 
behind. And you know, I am hoping that Connect SF and some of the work that we're 
doing with Transportation actually helps us make progress in realizing some racial equity 
and density equity between the west and the east side of San Francisco. And so, I would 
highly recommend the book to everyone. It's a dense book, but also emotionally hard to 
read because we've all been part of this system. And then sometimes it's hard to say, you 
know, Aha! Yeah well, we made that decision, and that led to something else. But highly 
recommend it. Alex Schafran. 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
So, while we’re on books, I think I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago. If you want to 
understand how we got where we are today, please take a look at Capital City: 
Gentrification and the rise of the Real Estate State. I recommend it. I read it from cover to 
cover in two hours. I have no financial interest in it. All I know is I bought a copy for each 
member of the commission. And maybe, and every time I walk into Dog Eared Books on 
Castro Street, they say 10 more copies? And I say yes. It's a great book. 
 
President Melgar:    
Thank you.  
 
 
6. 
Planning Director Desired Qualifications 
 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Georgia Schuttish – Planning Director 
 
 
Carolyn Kenady - Planning Director 
 
 
Stephanie Peek – Planning Director 
 
 
Sandra Dratler – Planning Director 
 
 
Jim Warshell – Planning Director 
 
 
Anastasia Yovanopoulos - Planning Director 
 
 
Jeremy Paul – Planning Director 
 
 
Mike Buhler – Planning Director 
 
 
Bruce Bowen – Planning Director 
 
 
Jerry Dratler – Planning Director 
 
 
Katherine Petrin – Planning Director 
 
 
Kathleen Courtney – Planning Director 
 
 
Peter Papadapolous – Planning Director 
 
 
Carlos Bocanegra – Planning Director 
 
 
Fernando Martis - Planning Director 
 
 
Marilyn Duran – Planning Director 
 
 
Jordan Davis – Planning Director 
 
 
Tes Welborn - Planning Director 
Kevin Ortiz – Planning Director 
Brandon Harami – Planning Director 
Larry Morgan – Planning Director 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 19, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 17