6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 30, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial:  
I just would like to bring to attention and also ask the Planning staff since there are 
actually state bills that are moving right now, and these state bills will absolutely affect 
San Francisco. So, I'm wondering -- or I'm asking if Planning can do an analysis of these 
upcoming state bills such as the SB 902, AB 725 and AB 2345. And to look into this analysis 
as to what each of these bills do, and how do they change our existing land use standards. 
Also, what kind of -- and how are these bills also override our local procedures and 
discretions, both in policy and administratively, so that the Commission will also be 
educated and also, we can know how it will affect our decisions. Also, it will be great to see 
too how these bills interact and add potentially to already existing state laws that San 
Francisco already needs to comply. Example, like how SB 902 would intersect with the 
state ADUs. On top of that with the state density bonus. So, these kinds of analysis are 
things that we would – that I would like to see, and I think it needs to be informed by the 
Planning to the Commission. These are fast moving and I think these are going to come up 
in the state by May 28. So, if it would be possible to have this kind of information analysis 
in the next week or two.  
 
Commissioner Moore:  
Commissioner Imperial has taken the words out of my mouth. It's particularly the 902 
which I’m concerned about and would very much like to hear more about it. It’s a time that 
all publications are dominated by coronavirus. One tends to forget that there are things 
moving in Sacramento and we need to stay informed about them. I think the Department 
in the past has been excellent in actually being ahead of everybody else in the state to do 
an analysis. I hope Director Hillis will support that we are dedicating some staff hours to 
exactly do that.  

San Francisco Planning Commission