8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for November 5, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I was reading the paper this morning, and something struck me as a very, very bright idea. I 
am not sure if it's possible but somebody asked as to whether or not, with schools closing 
again in the uptick of the coronavirus, as to whether or not parklets could not be adapted to 
also being informal classrooms for smaller class of students. I thought it was a great idea. I 
would like to hear from somebody in Planning -- not today, perhaps but at some point, in 
the future as to whether or not that is even a feasible idea.   
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioners, for the warm welcome and to staff for the welcome to the 
Commission. I was able to meet with leadership at the Planning Department this last week 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 19, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
to get reacquainted, and I want to thank Director Hillis and others for making time and for 
making themselves available.  
 
I also want to just encourage folks to rethink their Thanksgiving plans. I know myself, just 
this morning, myself and my household we decided to cancel the plans we had for 
Thanksgiving and just do Thanksgiving with our household. So, with everything that’s 
happening in the state and in our city, we really need to do our best to listen to our public 
health officials. We’ve listened to them pretty well and they got us pretty far. So, I just want 
to encourage folks to think about that for the safety of themselves but also the safety of 
others what their plans are for this Thanksgiving and even for the other winter holidays. So, 
it really broke my heart. I love Thanksgiving, but you can think about it, more leftovers for 
you for the whole weekend if you make enough on Thursday. So that’s the silver lining.   
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you. Just in the light of you know we’ve -- I know that this is a struggle for all of us in 
terms of the public hearings, but of course, whenever we have these kind of issues, I'm 
always worried about the public participation, and wondering if we could do some sort of -
- whether before the hearing and practice especially on the live, on how we're going to -- 
because it can be frustrating – especially for me as well when we have these kinds of issues, 
and we may deter some comments. So just something to keep in mind, for the next hearings. 
I would be open to some sort of practice session before live session, something like that. So, 
that's it.