5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 30, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Richards 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to restate my concerns about the light grey printing of our commission reports 
and the drawings. They are definitely not readable. And actually, I talked with staff and 
they had the same problem. We need to take a magnifying glass to discern a very light 
grey printing and it's probably the vendor needing to change cartridges or something. I 
don’t know.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioner Moore, we are looking into this issue and we are addressing it to the vendor 
and we may need to end up changing our procedures of reverting back to having project 
sponsors submit the plans on their own. Currently they are being printed through 
ReproMail, or whatever they’re called, that we, a vendor that we send out our case reports 
to. But if this continues to be a problem, we will revert back to having project sponsors 
submit plans on their own.   
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you so much for being responsive to that comment.   
 
Commissioner Fung: 
I would request again the status on our new offices. Where are we with that and how is it 
progressing? And any operational issues are coming with some new aspects that are 
current at that office.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioner Fung, we are also scheduling an informational presentation for you from 
those that are leading that effort.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 13, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
Reasonably soon?   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Reasonably soon, yes.   
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Well first, I just want to welcome our newest commissioner. So excited to have you with us, 
saw the hearings and just, yeah, excited to have you as part of the team so welcome. The 
other thing that I wanted to mention is that last night at SPUR, I was – and Director 
Rahaim, were part of a program called Reimagining the Planning Commission. Which was 
an idea that came up both in a conversation that I had had with Christy Wong and then 
also in my own time here as a Planning Commissioner. Thinking about this incredible 
space that we gather in every week to, yes, talk about code and planning, but more 
broadly, talk about who we are and who we're becoming as a city. And whether we could 
think about creative structures or designs that could help better facilitate those deeper 
level conversations. It was a really fun night, even though that's not the most sexy topic in 
the world, it is to a lot of people. It was a packed house and some really incredible 
recommendations, I think, came forward and everything from how we make the ability to 
become a Planning Commissioner more accessible to more people. Including potentially 
being compensated, term limits and things like that. To how we're structuring the cases 
that we're hearing every week to where we're holding the hearings and knowing City Hall 
is not the only seat of power in the city. There are many places where people are gathering 
to determine what they want for their communities and the city at large. And so, I'm still 
processing a lot of what was of the conversation that happened. But I definitely want to 
bring back concrete ideas that were surfaced yesterday evening and I just want to thank 
everybody who came out.  So, more soon. 
 
President Koppel: 
Great, thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome our new 
Commissioner, Imperial. I know she's been here at the hearings before over the past 
couple of years. So she’d hit the ground running and glad to have you here. Also, you may 
have seen yesterday Mayor Breed announced her new hire as the new Planning Director 
for San Francisco. Yesterday Mayor Breed announced the appointment of Rich Hillis as 
Planning Director. The commission here voted 4-2 to forward a slate of candidates to the 
mayor. Commissioner Richards was absent, and Commissioners Fung and Moore were the 
two dissenting votes.  And that slate did include Rich Hillis.