5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 15, 2020 
• Draft Minutes for October 22, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
President Koppel: 
Let me just start by formally welcoming Commissioner Tanner to the Planning 
Commission. She already was a commissioner, for those who don't know, at the Board of 
Appeals. So, she should be [inaudible] running with us. And honorable Mayor Breed was 
gracious enough to swear her in earlier this week. That was a nice pleasant surprise and I'm 
just thrilled and looking forward to having a full commission with seven great voices 
advocating for the city.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I'd like to join you welcoming Commissioner Tanner. I have observed her on the Board of 
Appeals. Quite a fighter. I'm delighted to have her join us so we at least can operate again 
as a full commission with seven participating members. Welcome, Commissioner Tanner. 
 
Commissioner Fung:    
I would also like to welcome my compatriot from the Board of Appeals. Welcome 
Commissioner Tanner.  
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Well if I can. I guess I'm learning to use the chat to get into the queue. Thank you so much, 
commissioners, President Koppel and Vice President Moore. I really appreciate you. Thank 
you, Commissioner Fung. It's been great to even get to know some of you before joining 
you all here. Hopefully, at some point we'll be in-person, which would be lovely and 
wonderful, but thank you for making yourselves available via video and phone. And I really 
just am so excited to serve with you and to serve the city. And thank you to Director Hillis 
and Director Ionin. Thank you so much for your work in helping me get ready to serve 
today and I’m just really delighted to be here. So, thank you all. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you and welcome again, Commissioner Tanner. If that concludes all deliberation 
from commissioners. If you would indulge me, for one moment commissioners. I would ask 
that you consider a resolution that I will share with you on your screen, and I believe 
Christine is here with us. Christine Silva, the manager or I should say former manager of 
Commission Affairs that assisted me very much in the background getting these remote 
hearings up and working. I am requesting that adopt a resolution commending her 13 
years of service with the Planning Department; the last six of which in my small office of 
Commission Affairs. She was integral in digitizing our records, making more public 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 5, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
availability of all of the things that used to be requested in hard copy are almost all now 
available digitally. Mostly due to her efforts. And again, I wanted to thank her so much for 
helping me navigate this sort of virtual normal place and getting our remote hearings up 
as swiftly and as efficiently as we have been able to. So hopefully, you can all see my 
screen with the resolution. It was adopted by the Historic Preservation Commission 
yesterday, and so, I would request you do the same today.  
 
President Koppel:    
Well let me first start by saying, definitely, very supportive of this resolution. Not only did 
Christine make all filling in at the live [inaudible] for Jonas Ionin and she did an amazing 
job.  But we all probably have no idea how much work she was doing behind the scenes 
just like explained by Mr. Ionin. So again, thank you Christine for all your time, all your 
service and wish you the best of luck in your future endeavors.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I’m with him because you started when I became a Planning Commissioner. And so, I've 
known you from day one and always admire your great contributions. Your incredible skills 
coordination with Secretary Ionin and everything which came after. Thank you very much 
for your service and we will miss you.  
 
Resolution Commending Christine Silva: 
 
SPEAKERS:  
None  
AYES:  
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
And we thank you again Christine -- 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Secretary Ionin, there is an incredible noise in the background and I’m not sure where it is. 
I’m in a quiet place, just like a construction or something dragging back and forth.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I hear it as well. I'm not sure since – oh it was Christine. It was coming from your computer. 
But, thank you and good luck to you at the Board of SFMTA.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Okay. Thank you. 
 
Christine Silva: 
Can I say just one or a few sentences? And then I'll mute. I just wanted to say thank you. It's 
been such a pleasure to work for such an incredible department. Not just one, but two 
really great commission all these years. And of course, I would be remiss not to thank 
Director Hillis, Secretary Ionin -- Jonas for all their support and guidance. And really most 
importantly, our Commission Affairs team, Chan Son and Josephine Feliciano, who are the 
backbone to our team. So again, just thank you so much. I'll miss you all, but of course, I'm 
not going far just over to MTA as the new board secretary. Thank you and I wish you all the 
best.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 5, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you.