7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for August 27, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, President Koppel. As we all know, today is a very-- I think we're all feeling the 
anxiety as there are -- as we are looking outside our window and it is very orange outside 
and it really speaks the need for climate resistance or climate resilience policies that I know 
that the Planning Department has right now. And I'm really looking forward and hearing 
this in the Planning Commission sometime this year. I think we really need to prioritize this 
as well. And as we are looking into this, that we also need to look into the budget and the 
implementation. As we are looking into the housing goals, as we are looking into the 
RHNA goals, I understand that the Plan Bay Area 2050 looks into the housing strategies but 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 10, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
not so much more in terms of Climate Resilience Strategies. And I think this is a good 
opportunity for San Francisco to have that and to really have a comprehensive and, you 
know, in terms of looking into the budget and implementation as to what are the timeline 
for this. You know, unfortunately this kind of discussion happened five years ago or maybe 
more than that, but we really need to act on it. So that's one thing.  
 
Another thing that I would like to touch on as well is in terms of community input when 
there are—let’s say, opposition or appeals in one particular project. To allow them to have 
more time to present as well. For example, the one that has happened last year in the 424-
434 Francisco Street. Where, you know, it has come from the public, for us in the 
commission to hear additional information, and didn't have enough chance to also, to do 
presentation. Like I would like to actually inquire more to that public member about—
kind of questions about the evictions. And I would implore more for the Planning 
Department to really provide us information when it comes tenant history. And when we 
look into tenant history, not just the eviction, because there are also different forms of 
displacement in terms of harassment, nuisance. Also, really look into -- dig into that. And I 
know that 2214 Cayuga is continued as well, but there is such – there is only one 
information that I only found about the tenant history in our documents. And us 
commissioners, we rely on the documents being presented to us. So, I would like to 
implore the Planning Department to do more research and information when it comes to 
tenants that are residing or have resided in a particular project.  
 
And lastly, there's actually one book that I believe Commissioner Chan was also a part of, 
the Counterpoints: An Atlas of Displacements and Resistance. And I would also suggest 
other commissioners to read that in the future. I think the book will be out soon. But I will 
also -- for us – and also the planners to also read into that book because it really shows the 
graphs of—or the history of the displacements here in San Francisco. And it will continue 
still, but at the same time, we need to do more pro-action in terms of our policies and in 
terms of like how we rate projects that are coming into us. And, there are more stories of 
people in there too and that’s how I see when I read into the projects, is to—who are the 
people that lived here and who are the people going to live here. So, that's my comments 
as a commissioner. Thank you.  
  
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to briefly share with you something which I hope at some point you all will be 
able to see and hear about. I was able to listen to a presentation yesterday by the Planning 
Director of the City of Oakland. And he spoke about the History of Planning in Birmingham, 
Alabama. And I don't want to steal the thunder, but it was such an incredible eye-opener. 
How with the civil rights movements, the city structure of Birmingham became something, 
with enabled voice was extremely powerful. I will try to see that the Planning Director give 
that presentation to the Department as well as to the Commissioners. I’m not sure if we are 
able to manage. But it was an incredibly eye-opening and moving presentation that I hope 
that you all will be able to hear at some point. And I will make an attempt to make that 
happen. Thank you.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 10, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 10