5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 15, 2020 
• Draft Minutes for October 22, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
President Koppel: 
Let me just start by formally welcoming Commissioner Tanner to the Planning 
Commission. She already was a commissioner, for those who don't know, at the Board of 
Appeals. So, she should be [inaudible] running with us. And honorable Mayor Breed was 
gracious enough to swear her in earlier this week. That was a nice pleasant surprise and I'm 
just thrilled and looking forward to having a full commission with seven great voices 
advocating for the city.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I'd like to join you welcoming Commissioner Tanner. I have observed her on the Board of 
Appeals. Quite a fighter. I'm delighted to have her join us so we at least can operate again 
as a full commission with seven participating members. Welcome, Commissioner Tanner. 
 
Commissioner Fung:    
I would also like to welcome my compatriot from the Board of Appeals. Welcome 
Commissioner Tanner.  
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Well if I can. I guess I'm learning to use the chat to get into the queue. Thank you so much, 
commissioners, President Koppel and Vice President Moore. I really appreciate you. Thank 
you, Commissioner Fung. It's been great to even get to know some of you before joining 
you all here. Hopefully, at some point we'll be in-person, which would be lovely and 
wonderful, but thank you for making yourselves available via video and phone. And I really 
just am so excited to serve with you and to serve the city. And thank you to Director Hillis 
and Director Ionin. Thank you so much for your work in helping me get ready to serve 
today and I’m just really delighted to be here. So, thank you all. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you and welcome again, Commissioner Tanner. If that concludes all deliberation 
from commissioners. If you would indulge me, for one moment commissioners. I would ask 
that you consider a resolution that I will share with you on your screen, and I believe 
Christine is here with us. Christine Silva, the manager or I should say former manager of 
Commission Affairs that assisted me very much in the background getting these remote 
hearings up and working. I am requesting that adopt a resolution commending her 13 
years of service with the Planning Department; the last six of which in my small office of 
Commission Affairs. She was integral in digitizing our records, making more public 

San Francisco Planning Commission