7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for June 18, 2020 – Regular 
• Draft Minutes for June 25, 2020 – Closed Session 
• Draft Minutes for June 25, 2020 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
President Koppel: 
I wanted to just take a minute and recognize a recently passed away former member of the 
Commission, former President, Ron Miguel. Not only did he serve tirelessly on the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
Commission, but also was very accessible and often gave input at the hearings even after 
he left the Commission representing the Dogpatch and -- very well the Dogpatch and 
Potrero Hill areas. I would like to hear what other commissioners might want to say. 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I want to remember him fondly. I served with him for five years. He is an untiring urbanist 
and he will be greatly missed. His activism during and after his serving on the Commission 
was remarkable and I actually still talked to him when he frequented us at public 
comments at our commission hearings. In early March I talked with him when he was in 
perfect health and he was telling me about all his plans and was just as active and 
participatory as he always was. Beyond my acknowledgment of commissioner -- as 
commissioner, I would like to actually acknowledge staff for their remarkable work in 
making these virtual hearings possible. There is Chan, there is Christine, there is Genta and 
most obviously, the one we see, Jonas, himself. But behind the scenes there is a 
tremendous amount of work and I'm always with awed when this all comes together as 
smoothly as it does. Thank you to everybody.   
 
Commissioner Johnson:    
Thank you. I want to echo both my fellow commissioners and just wanting to take a 
moment to honor former Commissioner Ron Miguel. I got to collaborate with him on an 
event at SPUR in February entitled “Re-envisioning the Planning Commission” and in that 
meeting and in every other time I've ever had the opportunity to interact with him, I was 
just always struck by his real passion for our city, for our communities and for changes that 
need to be made. And for volunteering his time is really as, you know, community activist 
to deal with issues of land use and policy. I actually wanted to honor him by sharing some 
of the perspectives that he shared. The recommendations for this body and how it could 
be structured and work going forward as a way to improve on it. It's very rare that people 
have the perspective of being on the other side of the dais and I thought some of his ideas 
were really astute. And so, I won’t be able to share them with the same spirit that he 
always was willing to share his perspectives on issues. But I just wanted to share a little bit.  
 
So, he has started by talking about the role of the Planning Commission, how it started to 
out to advise and recommend the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors Departments. And 
deal with upholding the General Plan, issues of land use, current planning, transportation 
and so on and so forth. Then brought up an issue that many others that evening and even 
in public comment have come up frequently from people just on what happens in the 
system of planning when change needs to be initiated because we are this body that sits 
between the Board of Supervisors, the City Departments, the Mayor, Commissions, it often 
comes that there is a question of who initiates change. And the change in major of the 
Planning Commission is such that our case load has increased to a level at which it's 
incredibly hard to be proactive on the issues of policy and land use and initiating that 
change. And his charged really to us from place of being reactive to Board of Supervisors, 
to the mayor, to the departments, to being proactive in authoring and creating new 
legislation and new change. He had some ideas for maybe how even our seats and our 
terms could be changed. He thought that there are seven commissioners and that the City 
might be divided into seven Planning districts to spread out a representation. He was 
supportive and actually said twice during his presentation that he felt that there should be 
term limits of two 4-year terms. He felt really strongly that we should consider 
subcommittees. Committees for discretionary reviews, committees for legislature review 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
and committees for code changes. So that we could do both well. We could adjudicate DRs 
and we could make new legislative changes and code changes. And, of course, he talked 
about the challenge of enforcement given the way that we are configured right now. He 
talked a lot about feeling like the Planning Commission gets cases too late and that 
commissioners being engaged earlier on in the process from the beginning, early on 
projects, would be helpful in helping us to be proactive. So, in his honor and in that spirit, I 
just wanted to echo some ideas that we can all keep in mind and even consider what it 
would be like to implement some of those things in his honor. Thanks for letting me share 
that perspective.   
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you, Commissioner Johnson, for bringing him back, literally right into the 
discussion, remarkable description. Thank you so much. May I ask in follow up on your 
comment and Commissioner Koppel’s comment that we close tonight's meeting in his 
honor?   
 
President Koppel:    
Absolutely.   
 
Commissioner Johnson:    
I would like that, thank you.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
I would like to express my condolences to his family and simply express that I was always 
in awe of how articulate he was and how grounded his comments were.