7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 21, 2020 – Regular Planning  
• Draft Minutes for May 21, 2020 – Joint Rec and Park 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – Hub 
Current stripped-down Minutes have no indication of substantial 
Commission comment on complicated item, THE HUB Area Plan, and 
further approval actions. SFGovTV notes show extensive dialogue 
between Commissioners and Department staff.  Future actions were 
presented by both as necessary.  Commitments were made.  None of this 
is noted.   
Many of issues must go to Supervisors for adoption. 
Does Commission have memo from Director indicating staff plans to 
follow up?  Will memo be presented to Supervisors? 
Jason Henderson – Hub 
Anastasia Yovanopolous – Hub, incorporate commissioners’ comments 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES: 
 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Johnson 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Diamond:    
So, it feels like we need to comment on the events that have transpired in the last week. It 
is too momentous as a nation and as a city to let this go without reflecting on how these 
events affect us as commissioners in the Planning Department. I believe it's important to 
state that we as a Planning Commission and Department stand with black communities 
who continue to experience racism in so many aspects of their lives. In addition to the 
need for police reform to stop the brutality, we need to dismantle other systems that have 
led to our country's deep inequities. And beyond words, we need to act. We can't just talk 
about it we need to do something about it. And one way we can do so as a Planning 
Commission and a Planning Department is to move quickly to implement phase two of the 
racial and social equity initiative with the resources that are necessary to do so in a 
meaningful and effective way to meet the needs of black communities, indigenous 
communities, and all communities of color. We need to act boldly, as Commissioner 
Johnson said last week, and recent events have underscored the urgency of that need. 
Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Chan: 
Thank you, Commissioner Diamond, for making those comments. I also wanted to share 
some of my thoughts and also based in conversations with Commissioner Johnson and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 4, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 20 
 
Planning staff throughout these past few days. I really appreciate you making the space for 
us to reflect about what is happening. So, I’ll try my best to encapsulate what I have heard 
which will be by no means be perfect but I no doubt will be important to kind of explain 
my thinking through this. I think absolutely it is important to acknowledge that what we 
have seen in the recent protesting and uprising in cities and suburbs is in response to pain, 
trauma and grieving. This is also not the first time that black communities have been 
telling us about their experiences, and that they would like us to do something about this. I 
know, like many of my colleagues, like I have been disturbed and heartbroken these past 
few days, but I can only begin to imagine what black and brown communities have been 
experiencing their entire lives. So, I think it is very clear that we, as a Planning Commission, 
need to heed the call to express solidarity with black lives and with black communities. 
And what we had been hearing is we need to center black communities in the work that is 
within the purview of the Planning Department and the Commission.  
 
To make this more explicit, Planning has a role to play because Planning makes 
institutional racism real and physical and spatial form. The built environment and its 
various professions have been complicit in expressing and justifying racial discrimination. 
And this is manifested in actions that are within the purview of the Planning Commission 
and the department historically in regard to housing and land use policies. And I just 
wanted to give a few examples to make that concrete. So, the San Francisco Master Plan of 
1945 was passed by the Planning Commission. It identified the neighborhoods of the 
Western Addition, Chinatown and SoMa as blight, which is an ecological term use to 
describe bacterial and fungi infestations. This language was then used as the pathway for 
displacement and dislocation. It was used to justify urban renewal and freeway 
construction projects that essentially bulldozed black and community of color.  
 
The City has also had a history of past and racially restrictive ordinances. And I think one of 
the first ones that we know about is ordinance number 2190 from 1890 that specified the 
location where San Francisco residents of Chinese descent could live and do business. And 
if found to be violating this, people would be guilty of a misdemeanor and jail for up to six 
months. And I point this out because we are still seeing these sorts of incidences arise 
because of systemic racism in black communities. More recently, we've seen the 
replacement of racially restricted ordinances with exclusionary zoning practices. This is 
often in the subtle use of zoning to achieve discriminatory practices. This might be for 
example, the citing of noxious facilities in communities of color that had led to the health 
impacts that have only been exasperated by impacts of COVID-19 in black and brown 
communities. I think even more pervasive is the use of language, the structuring of options 
that deflect attention away from these negative impacts on prime decisions that really 
negatively impact black, indigenous, and people of color.  
 
I also think on top of this, it's important to recognize who is planning our cities. So, the 
2010 census, this is for the entire west, but then again it would be different for San 
Francisco, but 81% of planners are white. 4 in 10 are women, so I think, you know, this is 
also an issue of hiring and supporting planners and commissioners who not only come 
from these communities, but who have been themselves negatively impacted by historical 
planning decisions. And we would want planners who can exercise a racial and social 
equity lens as a core competency in their role.   
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 4, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 20 
 
So, I say all this because I think the first step is to acknowledge and to name this. This is 
within the purview of the Planning Commission and the Department, and you know, I 
think all of the us as colleagues, we would benefit from using this racial and social equity 
lens to make decisions. And we can ask ourselves, when we make decisions about land use, 
how are we considering whether we are distributing resources equitably across 
neighborhoods and communities? How do we make sure that this development does not 
come hand in hand with the displacement of the communities that they are intended to 
benefit?  And I also want to note, this is not just a narrative about trauma and deficit. Black 
communities have ideas and aspirations that they have been sharing for many, many 
years. And they have ideas about what they want to see about their neighborhoods and 
places. So, this is untapped resources and innovation that I think we need to include in 
order to have meaningful direct participation of black communities in creating plans and 
having this feedback actually be directly reflected in the plans and policies of the 
commission and departments. And I think if we don't do both, if we don't have kind of 
equalized outcome as well as meaningful participation, then this would just be the 
perpetuation of institutional racism.  
 
So, I didn’t say this whole monologue just to hear myself talk. But what I am prepared 
today, hopefully following the lead of Commissioner Johnson who would like to be very 
clear that she is committed to working on this, and I believe Commissioner Diamond is also 
supportive. I would like to make a motion to direct staff to draft a resolution and to have it 
be calendared at our next hearing, and I think the intent of this resolution is to encapsulate 
everything that was just said in recent conversations and in the comments just now. And 
really to support the Planning Department's racial and social equity plan. And I think there 
is kind of three components. One, is to identify and direct priorities and resources in terms 
of the project that would directly address racial and social equity issues. Two, we want to 
see a work plan that responds to both the impacts of pandemic as well as the continual 
dispossession that black communities have been experiencing and to see this reflected in 
the hiring and budget resources. And then finally, I think given that there are budget 
shortfalls and conversations around that, I think it is important that the Commission really 
be clear about prioritizing dollars to support this critical work more than ever. So, with 
that, I will turn it over.   
 
President Koppel: 
Well said. 
 
Commissioner Imperial:    
Was that a motion? I second that motion. Also, thank you for -- Commissioner Chan, and 
even though Commissioner Johnson is not here, I applaud her for also leading this. And I 
also share the sentiments with Commissioner Diamond in terms of really -- in these times, 
it really asks for us to propel, to advance the racial and social equity that Planning has 
initiated in the first place. And as we are looking into policies into housing affordability 
strategies, community stabilization strategies, that we really need to incorporate the racial 
and social -- social equity on this. You know, there has been, you know, history of cities 
being designed as to oppressed, especially the black and brown community – especially 
the black community. And we need to do better. And so, I am supportive, and I also would 
like to commend Commissioner Johnson and Chan in leading on this.   
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 4, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 20 
 
Commissioner Fung:    
I would also thank Commissioners Chan and Diamond for their comments. I will not be 
repeating any of the things they said. I am in total agreement that this is not a time for 
reflection, this is a time for action. And we should do everything we can to proceed along 
those lines as to what the Planning efforts and this commission and staff can do.   
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you to all my fellow commissioners. You are speaking from the heart and I 
appreciate your so eloquently bringing it forward. I believe that our past normal is no 
longer acceptable and I agree that there needs to be a policy change at a deeper level that 
unconditionally commits to the civil rights of the 2020s.  Again, thank you and I will 
participate in contributing in every capacity that we can bring forward as Planning 
commissioners.  
 
President Koppel:    
Yeah. I, as well, am extremely supportive. I'm glad to see this happening and proud 
enough just to serve on this commission and as president. And I'm just absolutely even 
more proud and thrilled that I get to serve on a commission with over 70% women. So, I 
think we are doing a good job of at least given the optics that we are taking this as 
seriously as we are. And I am just, feel privileged that Commissioner Fung and myself get 
to keep such good company every Thursday.   
 
Vice President Moore:    
I have one additional comment and that is to note that the majority of women on the 
commission has also a majority of women of color.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If there is nothing further commissioners, there is a motion that has been seconded to 
direct staff to draft the resolution to encapsulate commission comments and support the 
Department’s racial and social and equity plan. On that motion, Commissioner Chan – 
 
Commissioner Chan:    
Aye. 
 
President Koppel:    
I'm sorry. Commissioner Diamond, did you want to chime in again?   
 
Commissioner Diamond:    
I did. And I think I would like to hear from Director Hillis before we go with the motion. 
Because I believe the Department probably has a lot of reflection on this as well too, and I 
would like to hear what he says.   
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:    
Sure. And I was going to address this also during director’s comments. Some of you know, 
we had an all-staff meeting yesterday to discuss the issues and the events that have been 
taking place. The murder of George Floyd had touched us all and I think it was an 
important and powerful meeting. Thank you, Commissioners Johnson, and Chan and 
Diamond, for participating in that meeting. As a staff, we wanted to express how we were 
feeling, and as you can imagine, there was a lot of anger. There was discouragement. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 4, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 12 of 20 
 
People were heartbroken. To recognize that Mr. Floyd was murdered because of the color 
of his skin, and we want to listen and support one another, especially our black staff, who 
we know are hurting. We want to acknowledge, as you have said, that black lives matter 
and encourage and support the protests that are happening here in San Francisco and 
elsewhere around the country and frankly the world. But importantly, as you all said, we 
wanted to commit ourselves to action. Even a progressive city like San Francisco, we know 
that there are pervasive inequalities, and we see them. We see them at the commission 
every week. And as Commissioner Chan noted, as policy and planning professionals at the 
Planning Department, in the past, we realize that the planners and policy makers have 
contributed to the racial inequities through the policies that she talked about, urban 
renewal, by redevelopment, exclusionary, zoning, and we are in a unique place to act and 
do something. I think Commissioner Diamond, you referenced Commissioner Johnson’s 
comments last week to be bold and that was in reference to the housing element. I think 
we need to be bolder in regard to racism and racial inequities in our city. We need to be 
transformative and we need to truly transform our institution including how we operate 
and who we operate for. So, I think in July, we are hearing the Racial and Social Equity 
Plan, Phase 2, which is the external phase of that plan. We need to be bolder in that 
planning.  As Commissioner Fung said, we need to do more than study, we need to act, 
and so we will take your comments in the resolution to do that and to act boldly. Our -- the 
racial and social equity initiative can't just be a program of the department, it really has to 
be our guiding principle, so thank you for your support yesterday, thank you for your 
ongoing support, and look forward to taking action with you.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
Very good. Then commissioners, then on that motion that has been seconded directing 
staff to draft the resolution to encapsulate commission comments and support the 
department’s racial and social equity plan -- [Roll Call]   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
So moved, commissioners. That motion passes unanimously, 6-0. And if I may, through the 
chair, suggest that we might adjourn today's hearing in the honor of George Floyd.   
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Yes.   
 
President Koppel:    
Great idea. 
 
Draft Racial and Social Equity Resolution: 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Draft resolution 
AYES: 
 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Johnson