22. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 16, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
 
23. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to commend architect Schaub for postponing or continuing 5500 Mission Street. I 
believe it is in everybody’s interest to really look for higher standards of care with respect 
to elderly care facilities and convalescent homes. Given the lessons we are learning 
nationally, and not just locally, from major outbreaks of coronavirus in those facilities, I 
believe it is within our responsibility to ask for higher standard of care when looking at 
these facilities and applying standards that may not even have been tested before. I saw a 
number of potential issues in the application as it stands, and I know that Mr. Schaub will 
work with the AIA to raise the level of standard of care for what he is proposing here. I very 
much appreciate it. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
I just want to note that the links that was tweeted out related to our hearings.  Is it 
currently streaming Planning Commission hearing? I just want to make sure that we're 
giving people the right link that is streaming the current hearing to address the comments 
that came up before. So, if staff could address that, we'd appreciate it.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:  
So, we were advised that SFGovTV would have a link to our broadcast. And right now, I am 
on my iPad on SFGovTV that is broadcasting our proceedings. There may have been a 
delay in that, but I believe we are up now.   
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Jonas, can you confirm where that link is? Because I see that somebody put it on the chat, 
but where --   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
Yeah, it's on SFGovTV, their channel 2. Their second channel.   
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Okay, because I didn't find it either at first.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
They recently switched over from the Small Business Commission to us. But if I'm not 
mistaken, they did have a separate link on their web page directing people to our 
livestream.   
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission