7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 16, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Imperial 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Hi everyone, colleagues and friends. I want to share that today is my last hearing on the 
Planning Commission. I let the Mayor know some time ago that I will be stepping off the 
Commission in order to say yes to some exciting developments in my personal and 
professional life. And I make that announcement with deep heartfelt gratitude. Over the last 
few years, it has been my absolute honor and privilege to serve. I have met so many amazing 
and brilliant people who are passionate about the future of our city, and -- including my 
colleagues, my fellow commissioners. You have become my colleagues and my friends, and 
I am really grateful for however short or long that we have had to serve together, for the 
opportunity to have gotten to collaborate and serve with each of you. I'm deeply grateful 
for the gifts that you bring to the Commission and your leadership and I can't wait to see 
how you carry on and what you are able to accomplish.  
 
I have a few comments to so mark this occasion, so I am going to share quite a bit. The first 
thing that I want to say is thank you to the staff of the Planning Department. Your work is 
tireless and I’ve seen senior leadership inside and outside the Department. I know that often, 
for folks who work in the nonprofit or the public sector, we are tasked with tackling issues 
that are larger than us and often without the tools or resources to be able to fully engage 
and I've seen this department over the last few years and even over the last few weeks, take 
the challenge of this time and really run with it. And put yourselves out there and demand 
change and really see your role as reflected in our Racial and Social Equity vision which just 
re-imagining what the planning field can be - inclusive, diverse and one that centers Racial 
and Social Equity both as a practice and an indicator. And so, I am deeply grateful to all of 
the Planning staff.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 17 
 
 
I want to close this statement by just sharing a little bit about what I have seen in my 
reflections over my time on the Planning Commission. And some things that I hope that 
whoever follows me and this Commission as they carry forward, can keep in mind to really 
light the way through this challenging time in our city in order to advance a city that is better 
than we found it and one that really holds to the tenets and values of Racial and Social Equity 
and justice for all. I've often said that Planning is not just about the code. It's about people's 
lived experience and their lives. How we are going to wield our power to help the city evolve 
in the name of equity and opportunity for all. But in order to do that I think we have to get 
really clear on four questions so that we can be the most effective possible, especially during 
this time of great challenge.  
 
The first is how do we, as a department and a commission set a tone for what development 
looks like in the city and lead by example by doing our own community-based planning and 
development work with the goal of reparations, regeneration and evolution. I think so often 
Planning Commissioners will say and it is observed by community members that projects 
start from the time an application is applied for and from that first preapplication meeting 
and the tone of those things really sets into course a set of motions that we see at the end 
of a project. Especially if they're not done in a culturally competent way. And so how are we 
setting the tone from the beginning of how we're doing development in collaboration that 
will lead to good development outcomes.  
 
The second is how can we spend more of our finite time and resources on crafting visionary 
citywide policy. Our city is going to have to do more with less resources given everything 
that we know about COVID, and how it's impacting the financial health of our city. And this 
has been something that actually every commission has – every commissioner who has left, 
I've watched all of their speeches, have talked about the need for the Commission to spend 
more time not less crafting citywide and neighborhood specific policies that will stabilize 
our city and encouraging in the flourishing of our neighborhood and communities. And we 
can't craft that visionary legislation if we're trying to determine the future of our city project 
by project or in a way that's reactionary. And so, I hope that over the break and going 
forward, we can take the time to simplify focus and reform the way that we structure our 
hearings and things like discretionary review, to really elevate the conversation and help us 
reach the higher goals and higher needs of this time in our city.  
 
The third is how do we stop the trauma and pain being that is being inflicted on 
communities of color by changing our code to recognize the impacts of displacement and 
gentrification and being proactive in working to stabilize that community. And showing 
those communities that they matter by shifting where we develop to densities and 
neighborhoods with high incomes that are not at risk of displacement. For too long, 
affordable housing has been tied to the market rate housing. And as long as that tie happens 
and affordable housing is only a fraction of the housing that is being built, you'll never reach 
your equity goals or affordability goals. And until we have findings related to those things, 
our racial and social equity work will always be discretionary. And our more equitable future 
relies on and cannot rely on discretion. And so, we need to find ways to really rectify the 
code to reflect those values.  
 
And lastly, I always have thought of myself as a Planning Commissioner as a facilitator. I 
think we are facilitators of larger questions of values and the future of the city that we want 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 17 
 
and how we all get there together. And we have to answer these larger questions about how 
we enable the physicality of our city to evolve while keeping and holding our shared values. 
And really encourage us to try to continue to elevate the conversation in our own minds and 
at these hearings because the old ways don't work and we can fight each other on whether 
this is an affordability crisis or a housing crisis until we're blue in the face and nobody is left 
to live in this city or we can recognize that what unifies us is that we want a better city where 
everyone has the opportunity to live, work and play and where racial and social equity are 
foundations of the future of the city and in order to do that it's time to be brave and bold 
and unite to do that work. Those are some of my reflections. I hope that we can cut through 
the fog of our San Francisco summer and project by project inertia to really kind of take a 
broader view of our role as a commission on the change that is being called to make. And I 
feel great pride and excitement that this group of people who are on the commission right 
now along with our planning staff and our community partners can make it happen. So, with 
that, I will just say, I won't be going far. I'll just be in the East Bay. I will be watching. I will be 
reminding you of these larger goals. And just thank you all so much for those opportunities 
and I wish you all the best. Thanks. 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
Good luck Milicent in your future endeavors. We will miss you.  
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Milicent, I can't begin to describe the ways I’m going to miss your voice and presence on the 
Commission. You have been a guiding light to me since I joined. And your thoughtfulness 
and clear articulation of the issues that we need to be focused on has been a guiding star. I 
wish you the best of luck in your next endeavor and will continue to ask myself, what would 
Milicent do, as I think with the issues that we face. Best of luck to you. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Also, good luck to you, Commissioner Johnson. I really wish we had more time to work 
together. I really admire the way you articulate things and the way you articulate items and 
I really wish we could spend more time and work together further. But I wish you all the best 
in your future endeavor. Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Goodbye as a colleague, hello as friend. You'll leave but you’ll always be there. I think the 
depths of your thinking and the thoughtfulness profound and you'll be very very much 
missed. I was just feeling the amount of freedom and guidance when you started to really 
talk about the deeper aspects of social equity and you so openly and honestly sharing 
yourself. It was just like amazing. Thank you for that but we'll be friends.  
 
Commissioner Chan: 
Commissioner Johnson, I also wish we had more time together, but I have been really 
inspired and thankful for your guidance and your insight in the short time that I have been 
on the Commission together with you. I wanted to wish you all the best and please keep in 
touch.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I know it’s Commissioner Comments but as a former commissioner, and now -- It's truly been 
an honor and a privilege to work with you Milicent. I think you showed today, you’ve got, 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 17 
 
just that knack in a unique way of looking at issues and making them – in your discussion of 
a practical and levelheaded, and also inspirational and forward thinking. You got a way to 
just elevate the discussion and the debate that is rare. You’ve crystalized it today. So, thank 
you for everything. You have been an inspiration to me, and I know to staff and to fellow 
commissioners and we'll miss you. But truly hope you can stay involved as we move 
Planning forward. Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Thank you all so much. 
 
President Koppel: 
Sad to see you go and glad you're not going too far, and you brought a really important 
voice to our Commission which I don't think we had prior to your appointment. Keep in 
touch and you know where to find us.  
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Thank you.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I’ve already privately shared with you Commissioner Johnson my personal thoughts and 
feelings. But I will just say that your voice will be missed here on the Planning Commission 
and it will be San Francisco’s lost.