7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 21, 2020 – Regular Planning  
• Draft Minutes for May 21, 2020 – Joint Rec and Park 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – Hub 
Current stripped-down Minutes have no indication of substantial 
Commission comment on complicated item, THE HUB Area Plan, and 
further approval actions. SFGovTV notes show extensive dialogue 
between Commissioners and Department staff.  Future actions were 
presented by both as necessary.  Commitments were made.  None of this 
is noted.   
Many of issues must go to Supervisors for adoption. 
Does Commission have memo from Director indicating staff plans to 
follow up?  Will memo be presented to Supervisors? 
Jason Henderson – Hub 
Anastasia Yovanopolous – Hub, incorporate commissioners’ comments 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES: 
 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Johnson 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Diamond:    
So, it feels like we need to comment on the events that have transpired in the last week. It 
is too momentous as a nation and as a city to let this go without reflecting on how these 
events affect us as commissioners in the Planning Department. I believe it's important to 
state that we as a Planning Commission and Department stand with black communities 
who continue to experience racism in so many aspects of their lives. In addition to the 
need for police reform to stop the brutality, we need to dismantle other systems that have 
led to our country's deep inequities. And beyond words, we need to act. We can't just talk 
about it we need to do something about it. And one way we can do so as a Planning 
Commission and a Planning Department is to move quickly to implement phase two of the 
racial and social equity initiative with the resources that are necessary to do so in a 
meaningful and effective way to meet the needs of black communities, indigenous 
communities, and all communities of color. We need to act boldly, as Commissioner 
Johnson said last week, and recent events have underscored the urgency of that need. 
Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Chan: 
Thank you, Commissioner Diamond, for making those comments. I also wanted to share 
some of my thoughts and also based in conversations with Commissioner Johnson and 

San Francisco Planning Commission