7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 9, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore:  
Secretary Ionin, I would like to bring to your attention that the line -- your own voice is fading 
in and out. There is a certain instability in the line, and it will mix certain critical information. 
Also, when you are repeating the phone number, at least on my end there is a very weak 
connection. I am now wondering if other people share the same impression. Thank you.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
I will try to move closer to my router. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
There were two items in the news this week that I think would be really beneficial if we could 
have a Planning Department briefing to the Commission on. One was a report in the 
newspaper about the RHNA numbers – the new RHNA numbers that are being adopted. And 
the interplay between SB 35 and the new, much higher RHNA numbers. I spent some time 
earlier this morning on the phone with Kate Conner and James Pappas in the Planning 
Department to try to understand these issues in more detail. And they gave me an 
exceptionally helpful briefing and my request to the Director, in abstentia, is that it would 
be really beneficial I think to the Commission and also to the public to understand future 
implications of these much higher RHNA numbers, especially in light of SB 35 as applied to 
San Francisco.  
 
My second request has to do with -- and maybe this will come up later in the legislation 
presentation, but that the Hub project was adopted by the Board in a considerably different 
format than was approved by the Commission. And it would be helpful I think to understand 
for the Commission the implications of the Board's approval and the Racial and Social Equity 
analysis that is going to be done, and how that interplays with Phase 2 of the Planning 
Department Racial and Social Equity initiative. And also, the impact on all of the community 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 23, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
benefits, in particular, the transportation improvements that were part of the larger Hub 
plan and what that timing might be. And also, what the status is of, not the three projects 
were approved but all the others, and status of any pending applications on those projects. 
So again, a request to Director Hillis to provide a much fuller briefing I think to the 
Commission about what that means going forward. Thank you.