6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 23, 2020  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
 
• Draft Minutes for July 30, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted as Amended 
AYES:  
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I want to comment on SB-1085. I am delighted to hear that Senator Skinner worked for the 
Board of Supervisors to protect the Affordable Housing Fees for San Francisco. Further to 
this I would like to commend the Department, praise the Department for its remarkable 
effort having held an intern program that has created remarkable results. I participated the 
intern presentations on Tuesday the 18th, 19th and 20th. Where each day five interns 
recommended their respective programs. I strongly recommend that all commissioners 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
avail themselves to the link that has been sent out and hear the presentations. They were 
remarkable, there is lots to be learned and I couldn’t be happier for the Department being 
capable of conducting a remote intern program, for each participant made significantly 
important and valuable contributions for Planning in San Francisco. The range of topics is 
amazing and would take too long to mention all 15 of them, but I strongly would like to 
direct your attention towards the presentation POPOS Monitoring and Compliance in 
addition to Climate Resilience Story Map. Also of great interest I think was the idea about 
Freight Planning and the Housing Element Update and a discussion on a new Land Use 
code called Co-Sharing. All of them are thought provoking. I hope the Commission will 
work closely with the Department to take some of these things forward and those are my 
comments.  
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yes, I agree with Commissioner Moore. I also participated the interns’ presentation. And I 
would like to applaud, as well, the Planning staff as well and the supervisors who 
supervised those interns. They are knowledgeable for me and I hope that this will continue 
for next summer program. I know we may be facing budget cuts but I hope that one will 
not be cut. So congratulations to the supervisor and to the interns and hope you can send 
them my regards. Thank you.