6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 30, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Adopted  
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial:  
I just would like to bring to attention and also ask the Planning staff since there are 
actually state bills that are moving right now, and these state bills will absolutely affect 
San Francisco. So, I'm wondering -- or I'm asking if Planning can do an analysis of these 
upcoming state bills such as the SB 902, AB 725 and AB 2345. And to look into this analysis 
as to what each of these bills do, and how do they change our existing land use standards. 
Also, what kind of -- and how are these bills also override our local procedures and 
discretions, both in policy and administratively, so that the Commission will also be 
educated and also, we can know how it will affect our decisions. Also, it will be great to see 
too how these bills interact and add potentially to already existing state laws that San 
Francisco already needs to comply. Example, like how SB 902 would intersect with the 
state ADUs. On top of that with the state density bonus. So, these kinds of analysis are 
things that we would – that I would like to see, and I think it needs to be informed by the 
Planning to the Commission. These are fast moving and I think these are going to come up 
in the state by May 28. So, if it would be possible to have this kind of information analysis 
in the next week or two.  
 
Commissioner Moore:  
Commissioner Imperial has taken the words out of my mouth. It's particularly the 902 
which I’m concerned about and would very much like to hear more about it. It’s a time that 
all publications are dominated by coronavirus. One tends to forget that there are things 
moving in Sacramento and we need to stay informed about them. I think the Department 
in the past has been excellent in actually being ahead of everybody else in the state to do 
an analysis. I hope Director Hillis will support that we are dedicating some staff hours to 
exactly do that.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 14, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 11 
 
Another point I would like to raise and I’m not quite sure as to whether this is the correct 
moment, if at all possible and I'm looking towards Secretary Ionin, if we are able to get any 
upcoming DEIRs and large documents in printed form, it would help greatly to not go to 
the same pain as we just did with the HUB project, which was extremely difficult to review, 
given the size of our computers and the inability to really mark the documents with sticky’s 
as we do when we read hard copies. I also would like to encourage or continue to 
encourage that large documents and EIRs are given to us two weeks prior to things being 
heard. That is a comment which is being continuously pressed on President Koppel and 
myself. Secretary Ionin is aware of it. I just want to make sure that we at least acknowledge 
that in some cases that maybe necessary. Thank you. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:  
Duly noted Commissioner Moore. 
 
Commissioner Moore:  
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Diamond:    
I want to support Commissioner Moore’s request that we get the documents, staff reports 
in hard copy if at all possible, with particular emphasis on the response to comment 
documents, the draft EIRs, and any plans. Thank you.  
 
Director Hillis:    
Just to quickly respond on the state legislation which I agree there are a significant 
number of housing bills that are moving through the state process. And as you know they 
may change. Some may go away. As the process continues, and we -- thank you, 
Commissioner Moore, staff has been great in the past on reviewing these and in giving us 
information on how they will affect San Francisco. We will continue to do that work and 
get you information as these bills move forward and become reality on their own impact 
us.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Imperial:    
Thank you.