12. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 27, 2020 
• Draft Minutes for March 5, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
 
13. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Koppel: 
So, let me take a moment now to talk to the members of the public. Due to this very 
serious unexpected epidemic we’re facing, we’re really trying to balance the functioning 
government process that we have in regard to everybody’s wellbeing and life safety. This is 
something we have never had to deal with before. Again, I want to personally thank 
Director Hillis, Jonas and Christine specifically, along with all of the staff for making this 
hearing possible. I am proud to be here with you all today. We all are definitely out of our 
comfort zone, but we need to keep moving forward. The continuance calendar is definitely 
backing up. We are going to be asking for your patience today during the hearing and for 
future hearings. We’re doing this the best we can, and I am highly confident we will keep 
moving forward without compromising the public’s accessibility to comment. Up through 
today, we have been definitely reviewing all the emails that have been submitted to us 
and those who do not have internet service, there is a call-in phone number. Again, please 
be patient with us through that process. In totality, there may be a 30-second delay 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 16 
 
throughout the hearing, but we want to make sure that you definitely know that your 
voice will be heard.  
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I ask the commission to close today’s hearing in memory of Gerald Adams. Gerald Adams, 
prize-winning urban planning writer for the San Francisco Examiner passed away on April 
3, 2020 at the age of 92. In these dark times, it was not a coronavirus death. It was just his 
passing.  
    
From the 1970's until his retirement from the Chronicle in 2005, Mr. Adams reported 
extensively on matters involving land use, the environment, real estate development, 
architecture and urban planning. 
 
Among changes to San Francisco's cityscape reported by Mr. Adams were events that led 
to the transformation of the city's obsolete railroad yards into Mission Bay's development 
into a medical and high-tech center; the boom in downtown skyscraper development 
during the 1980's and 1990's, conversion of the San Francisco Presidio from military to 
peacetime use as a national park; transformation of the city's waterfront following the 
demolition of the Embarcadero Freeway and creation of the cultural and recreation 
complex known as Yerba Buena Center from what had been Skid Road and warehouse 
district in the then-tawdry South of Market District. Mr. Adams covered years of Downtown 
Plan hearings and the requirements which led to office building developers having to pay 
for expanding the supply of housing affordable to workers. 
 
During his half-century-long newspaper career, Mr. Adams received various awards for 
journalistic achievement. They include prizes from the Associated Press, the San Francisco 
Press Club, the Hearst Newspapers Corporation, the Society of Professional Journalists of 
Northern California, the Association of Catholic Journalists. In recognition of articles 
dealing with architecture, the environment and urban planning, the American Academy in 
Rome, awarded him its Rome Prize, entailing a year-long fellowship in environmental 
design. He was also named a fellow of the Salzburg Seminar in American Studies. 
 
In 1998, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors cited Mr. Adams for "his priceless gift to 
San Franciscans in bringing to public attention the city's major environmental and urban 
planning controversies with informed and thorough reports in the San Francisco Examiner 
and California Tomorrow. In an even-handed way, he tells us of crucial planning decisions 
being made in the neighborhoods, in the Financial District and on the waterfront – 
decisions in which the public has the right to participate." 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
First of all, thank you Commissioner Koppel for acknowledging what is going on and what 
is been happening. We cannot deny that the Planning Commission and how we are going 
to see Planning in the future will somehow change. There are a lot of uncertainties out 
there and we cannot deny that there are disasters that is going to come and this is one of 
it. And so, I just want to bring up that I think last – about two weeks ago, the San Francisco 
Bay Conservation and Development Commission issued a study, it is called Adapting to 
Rising Tides. And this is one of the things that I think we should also read and the Planning 
Department should also take into account when looking into the future of development 
plans and also development plans that have already been approved. This is very thorough 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 16 
 
and at the same time it leads us to what kind of infrastructure are going to be affected 
when the sea level rises and what kind of communities are going to be affected. So, this is 
something that we should take into consideration when we are doing some plan 
amendments. So yeah, I recommend the Planning Department to take this into 
consideration. And as for what we are doing now, at the same time, because of the virtual 
hearing that we are having, it also gives us limitations on what can be heard and what can 
be approved. And so, definitely patience from the public and also for us to be responsible 
in how to connect this kind of information to the public. And it’s going to be really new to 
us and I applaud already the Planning Department in having this virtual hearing and 
having this out to the public. But we need to figure out because – we do not know what 
the future is going to look like once this shelter in place is lifted. How are the dynamics of 
different sectors are going to be behaving? So, I know we are all trying to see what is going 
to happen. That is just my comments for commission.