5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 28, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Thank you. I was not present last week, and I am grateful to my fellow commissioners and 
the director for all of your comments last week. As a person of color and a black person, 
we're often called to do the work, while experiencing trauma. And I feel grateful that I was 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 11, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 18 
 
both able to do some work that is before you as the next item and also take good care. I 
want to take this opportunity to use this platform to talk a little bit about my experience. 
The experience of black people and the role and opportunity of Planning in addressing the 
issues that are in every city in America right now. I want to start by telling a personal story. 
A couple of years ago, I was walking home at night. I live in the Inner Richmond and I was 
walking through Pacific Heights. And I noticed that I was being followed by a man and he 
followed me for several blocks. I felt fear for my life, both as a woman and as a black 
person, recalling the murder of Trayvon Martin. I got the courage to turn around and ask 
him "are you following me?" And his words to me were "what are you doing here, what are 
you doing in my neighborhood?". I'm going to pause to let whoever is not on mute mute 
and then also to continue. That is not an isolated incident. That is -- I've had interactions 
like that my entire life, as have my parents, as have my friends, of being told where we do 
and don’t belong. And the reason why that person felt so bold to tell that to me, is because 
he knows the unsaid rules of living in cities. He knows the unspoken rules, that even in 
culturally liberal or progressive cities, our cities are deeply segregated. And that we have 
hard-coded systems in place that have oppressed and dispossessed people of opportunity, 
of intergenerational wealth, of the ability to feel safe and live lives of self-determination 
and freedom in our lives. And San Francisco is no exception to that. He felt that boldness 
because he knew that he had the backing of generations of laws and of government to be 
able to make a statement like that. I tell you that because the only reason I escaped with 
my life, is because he didn't have -- he didn't call the police or have a gun. And also 
because I think it is at the intersection of where planning and policy and government and 
racism and our lived experience meets.  
So, I want to say that the uprising and civil unrest that we are experiencing in cities across 
America are, yes, in a response to both police brutality and misconduct, but they are also 
about generations of trauma inflicted through systems of white supremacy. It is a call not 
only to address police brutality and misconduct but to dismantle any institution that 
refuses to be responsible and accountable to its history, to the ways in which it is still 
inflicting harm and to black lives and communities of color, not just through words, but 
through our actions.  
As we are going to spell out in our resolution today, there is documented and empirical 
data of generations of oppressions and dispossessions that were intentional, that moved 
from explicit to implicit and complicit. And that the tools of Planning have been used to 
segregate, displace, dispose and dispossess. As a government entity, this is part of the 
platform that we have inherited and are standing on. And unless all of us are gathered – 
who are gathered to plan for this city, all of us who are tuning in to this call, all of us that 
are in the ecosystem of Planning, as commissioners, as planners, as project sponsors, as 
neighborhood organizations and community organizations. Unless we do the work, one, 
to understand name, apologize, claim our role in and address that history. Unless we are 
able to name the harm that is currently being inflicted, and unless we are committed to 
doing our own work on our internalized antiblack racism, unless we are committed to 
working on turning the tools of planning into tools of antiracist liberation, and then we are 
not answering the call of our time. Antiracist work starts with the self, it is deeply 
uncomfortable. It is deep and it is long lifelong work for white people and for people of 
color. I hear a lot -- people use the word "equity" a lot, but it starts with the self and take 
doing the work to understand what it really means. I encourage anyone who is listening on 
this call or might listen to this recording later to read the books "White Fragility, How To Be 
Antiracist and White Supremacy and Me.” From not so far place that moves into our spirits 
of influence. Looking at who you are hiring, who you are contracting with, what your 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 11, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 18 
 
neighborhoods look like. How are you supporting the leadership of black and indigenous 
people and communities of color? How are we demand-- what are we demanding of 
power and how are we holding ourselves accountable? There is an evergreen post written 
by an author I really appreciate named Vu Le. He writes a lot about the non-profit and 
philanthropic centers. And he wrote a post in 2014 that called "Equity: The New Coconut 
Water." It's hilarious and important read, but it is also deeply troubling and sad that three 
or four years later, what he wrote, is still true. That it sounds good and everybody wants to 
use it, and everybody – it is refreshing to say, but true equity requires us not just to throw 
around the word, but to reevaluate our beliefs, our practices, and our definitions. It 
requires us to do the self-work of exploring how not just not to be racist but how to 
actively be anti-racist. It requires us to look at our boards, our staffs, our organization 
composition and leadership, our hiring practices, where we are putting our funding and 
our funding allocation; looking at who is at the table and who set the table to begin with. 
It requires us to fundamentally change our ways of doing things.  
As Planning, in this moment we have the profound responsibility and I'm so grateful that 
we have the opportunity right now to make change in a meaningful way. So many of the 
sentiments of these words here are encapsulated in the resolution that we will all discuss a 
little bit later, so I will save more comments for that, but I appreciate all of your 
consideration, those of you who have, you know, added inputs to it. And your thoughts 
and comments going forward about how we can move, as a body, as an entity, and as a 
community in a meaningful way to make change. I just want to end by thanking some 
folks and I will thank some other folks later. I want to thank some Planning staff, Claudia, 
Miriam, Andy, Wade, all of the facilitators who brought the Planning staff together last 
Wednesday to have internal conversations about how we move and how we set up 
structures and resources to make meaningful change. I just want to end by saying black 
lives matter. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Commissioner Johnson, thank you for what you just said so eloquently and with so much 
depth. It will make it so much easier to agree on the resolution and perhaps add and 
enhance. Thank you so much.   
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Thank you.   
 
President Koppel: 
 I as well am thrilled to support the resolution. Super proud of you. Super proud of us. This 
is a huge moment for the Commission, the Department and our city. So, we wanted to give 
a mention to one of my bosses, our first African American Mayor, London Breed and thank 
her personally from the Commission, from our Department for all of her leadership 
through all of these very, very tough times.   
 
 
7. 
2016-003351CWP 
(M CHION: (415) 575-9124) 
RESOLUTION CENTERING THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT’S WORK PROGRAM AND RESOURCE 
ALLOCATION ON RACIAL AND SOCIAL EQUITY – Adoption of a Resolution centering the 
Planning Department’s work program and resource allocation on racial and social equity; 
acknowledging the history of inequitable planning policies that have resulted in racial 
disparities; directing the Department to implement its Racial and Social Equity Action Plan; 
directing the Department to develop proactive strategies to address structural and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 11, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 18 
 
institutional racism, in collaboration with Black and Indigenous communities and 
Communities of Color; directing the Department to amend its hiring and promotion 
practices to ensure that the Department’s staff reflects the diversity and demographics of 
the community; recommending that the Board of Supervisors condemn discriminatory 
government actions; and, directing the Department to build accountability through 
metrics and reporting. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Miriam Chion – Staff report 
 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
 
+ Corey Smith – Judicial equity and action 
 
 
+ Speaker – Homeownership, help undue damage  
 
 
+ Steven Buss – Zoning process, planning process 
 
 
+ Nomi – Support 
 
 
+ Sonja Traus – Residential zoning, group housing 
 
 
+ Laura Foote – How can we un-segregate our community 
 
 
+ Theo Gordon – Racial impacts, car over people, neighborhood character 
 
 
+ Tes Welborn – Provide equal access 
 
 
+ Martin Munoz – High income areas 
 
 
 
 
+ Corina Andreva – Community being pushed out of the city 
 
 
+ David Woo – Market rate development 
 
 
+ Matthias Mormino – Support 
 
 
+ Norman Garcia – Equity verse approach  
 
 
+ April McGill – American Indians 
 
 
+ Rev. Arnold Townsend – All communities 
 
 
+ Carrie – Reparations, give land back 
 
 
+ Anastasia Yovnopolous – Displacement 
 
 
+ Speaker – Decolonization 
 
 
+ David – Undo discriminatory practice 
 
 
+ Fernando Marti – All housing matters 
 
 
+ Suzanne Cervantes – Displacements, CEQA 
 
 
+ Carlos Bocanegra – Fairness and equality 
 
 
+ Speaker – Postpone high rise projects 
 
 
+ Rachel Lastimosa – Oversight committee 
 
 
+ Mike Chen – Affordable housing, zoning 
 
 
+ Kenneth Russell – Redlining, exclusionary zoning 
 
 
+ Ozzie Rohm – Upzoning, building luxury housing 
 
 
+ Yonathan Randolph – West side, status quo 
 
 
+ Theodore Randolph – Displacement in SF 
 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
 
+ Claire – Support 
 
 
+ Sara Ogilvie – Zoning 
 
 
+ Speaker – All housing matters 
 
 
+ Oscar Grande – Community oversight committee 
 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
 
+ Sharaya – Data 
 
 
+ Charles Whitfield – Zoning, redlining map 
 
 
+ Glen Zheng – Community based solutions 
 
 
+ Angelica Cabande – Community amendments 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 11, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 18 
 
 
 
+ Gabriel Medina – Community based planning 
 
 
+ Lulu Frasier – Affordable housing 
 
 
+ Joseph – Community amendments 
 
 
 + Raquel Redondiez – Small businesses 
 
 
+ John Jacobo – Support  
ACTION:  
Adopted with Amendments 
AYES:  
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
RESOLUTION: 
20738