8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 16, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Adopted as Amended  
AYES:  
Diamond, Fung, Koppel, Melgar, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Johnson, Richards 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I wanted to ask, Commission Secretary, if there is any possibility to get slightly more 
quality control over the printed material that we are receiving. In the last few weeks, prints 
come out in a very light gray, hard to read. In addition, that certain projects, both texts and 
as well as drawings reduce the type face size, and it's hardly readable. Particularly when it 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 19 
 
comes to the drawings. They become so small and in light gray, even with a magnifying 
glass you cannot see it. And maybe just talking with a vendor to look for more consistency.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commissioner Secretary:    
We can certainly address that issue.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Melgar:    
So today is my last Planning Commission meeting. I just wanted to thank all of you for 
being wonderful colleagues. I have enjoyed my time here and to the public who always is 
here to tell us what they think. I also thank you for being part of this process.  
 
President Koppel: 
Yes sorry to s--  
 
(comment from the public – inaudible) 
 
Commissioner Melgar:    
But thank you, Theresa.  
 
President Koppel:    
She's worth it. I'm sorry to see you go. I haven't been here without you once, not once, so 
it's going to hit me next week probably. And best of luck to you once again. You know 
public comment coming up, coming right up.  
 
Georgia Schuttish, Speaker: 
Here’s some potatoes, they're called Magic Myrna organic potatoes. So, there’s four of 
them for you. They're very good roasted.  
 
Commissioner Melgar:    
Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Can she take them before the meeting?  
 
President Koppel:    
They’re magic potatoes? 
 
Commissioner Moore:  
Be careful what you take. 
 
Commissioner Melgar:    
Thank you.