6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for December 3, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Georgia Schuttish – General  
ACTION: 
Adopted as amended 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Koppel: 
So, I wanted to start off by say saying “Wow! What a year!” Not only did we start off the year 
with a new director, and a new building; a new home for our Planning Department, but we 
also conducted 32 online virtual hearings which is astounding to me. I can’t thank everyone 
enough for being there for us, helping us, in getting us, to where we’ve been all year round. 
We also introduced our Racial and Social Equity resolutions centering around our work 
within the Department and outwards as well. And then we will continue that momentum as 
soon as we start kicking off next year as well, and for those of you in the public, thanks for 
tuning in with us. We are going through the same situation you guys are at home. We 
haven’t even met -- all of us Commissioners have not even met each other. Some of the 
newer ones, we haven’t come into contact with yet. So, we’re all living in virtually and thanks 
again for all of your patience.  
 
I did want to thank all of the Staff, the entire Department, head to toe, A to Z, and especially 
Christine whose moved on, but was a huge help to us conducting the hearings, as well as 
Chan and Josie. And, I also, do want to take a separate minute out to thank someone who 
has stepped up and literally made this whole year possible. He’s not a commissioner. He has 
acted like one and stepped up and only us Presidents or past Presidents will know what a 
task it is to actually conduct hearings and Jonas Ionin has done this flawlessly, juggling all 
the commenters, all the time clocks, all the calendar and agenda changes. So, I just wanted 
to send a special thanks to that guy, because he has single handedly made all this happen. 
No slam on anybody else, but Jonas has just come through in such a way that I don’t think 
any of us could have imagined. So, personal thanks out to him.  And that’s it, please, 
everyone take this time- Commissioners, staff, people in the public, just take a couple weeks 
and be safe and enjoy your holidays and we will be back soon for 2021 and looking forward 
to it. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you, President Koppel. You, so well, summarized my feelings. I want to send my 
Holiday Greetings to Staff and thank you. We will miss the Christmas party. We all have this 
normally; missed seeing your babies and everybody else; missed seeing our new 
Commissioners, in person, for the first time; missed seeing your new digs which none of us 
have really been in. So, as these are strange times, but at least we have the media. If we 
wouldn’t have them it would be worse off. And I do want to echo your feelings and thank 
you to Jonas. He has done an amazing job. I hope that MSNBC or ABC are not going to hire 
him away because he’s doing such a great job. So, I have mentioned it to him before, but -- 
he is a message carrier and had made it easy for us to emulate a light-hearted well-

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 17, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
functioning meeting. Thanks to our Commissioners, new and our longer tenure. It has been 
a great year. I know we have -- we all muster circumstances that make it harder to really 
communicate because we are only virtual, but I think everybody has really done a great job. 
And I appreciate the diversity. I appreciate the strength of everybody’s positions and I have 
learned a lot. Thanks to everybody and Happy Holidays. Happy Holidays to the public who 
are listening to today's meeting. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Okay. If there are no further request to speak from commissioners. Thank you for those kind 
words Commissioners. But, I can't reiterate enough, how much, how important the team 
behind me is to make that happen. So, thank you for that.