7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 16, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Imperial 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Hi everyone, colleagues and friends. I want to share that today is my last hearing on the 
Planning Commission. I let the Mayor know some time ago that I will be stepping off the 
Commission in order to say yes to some exciting developments in my personal and 
professional life. And I make that announcement with deep heartfelt gratitude. Over the last 
few years, it has been my absolute honor and privilege to serve. I have met so many amazing 
and brilliant people who are passionate about the future of our city, and -- including my 
colleagues, my fellow commissioners. You have become my colleagues and my friends, and 
I am really grateful for however short or long that we have had to serve together, for the 
opportunity to have gotten to collaborate and serve with each of you. I'm deeply grateful 
for the gifts that you bring to the Commission and your leadership and I can't wait to see 
how you carry on and what you are able to accomplish.  
 
I have a few comments to so mark this occasion, so I am going to share quite a bit. The first 
thing that I want to say is thank you to the staff of the Planning Department. Your work is 
tireless and I’ve seen senior leadership inside and outside the Department. I know that often, 
for folks who work in the nonprofit or the public sector, we are tasked with tackling issues 
that are larger than us and often without the tools or resources to be able to fully engage 
and I've seen this department over the last few years and even over the last few weeks, take 
the challenge of this time and really run with it. And put yourselves out there and demand 
change and really see your role as reflected in our Racial and Social Equity vision which just 
re-imagining what the planning field can be - inclusive, diverse and one that centers Racial 
and Social Equity both as a practice and an indicator. And so, I am deeply grateful to all of 
the Planning staff.  

San Francisco Planning Commission