4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for September 17, 2020 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I have a question regarding the technology we've been using for our meetings. Is there a 
possibility for commissioners to ask questions to people who are calling in? Normally, 
when we are in chamber, we obviously have the ability to call somebody and ask them to 
clarify their question or ask additional questions. As we are online, it is hard to pose all my 
question to you Jonas. Is there a possibility for us to ask questions to the public?   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Yes, Commissioner Moore. I don't see any reason why you couldn't ask members of the 
public under general public comment or commenting on a particular item. But I would 
suggest that before their time runs out, you notify me by voicing your request to ask the 
member of the public a question. For example, maybe when their 30-second chime is up, 
or when you can feel they're concluding their comments, to just voice your request for -- or 
to ask a question.   
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Mostly, it is actually as conversations evolve and other people comment that a question 
may arise when you want to go back to somebody who already spoke. It is really more that 
incident than in the moment wanting to interrupt and ask.   
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 1, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 9 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
That, Commissioner Moore, procedurally with the technical capabilities before me are 
extremely difficult because all I'm seeing when members of the public call in, is a phone 
number, and it's not even the entire 7-digit phone number. We're only seeing a portion of 
the phone number, so it would be nearly impossible for me to determine which person 
made the comment that you're asking the question of.   
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you. That answers my question. Appreciate it.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Okay.