6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 28, 2021 
• Draft Minutes for November 4, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, if you would indulge me for one moment. We have another departure from 
our City family and Mr. Scott Sanchez, if you could make yourself visible. Thank you. And this 
time I will make myself the presenter before I share my screen. Mr. Sanchez has decided to 
leave the Planning Department yet again. And so, we have prepared this proclamation for 
him and hopefully you can all see this screen. Similar to the one for Kate Stacey.  
 
“This Proclamation is in the honor of Scott Sanchez.  
WHEREAS, Scott Sanchez began his illustrious career with the San Francisco Planning 
Department in 1999 as an intern;  
WHEREAS, the Mayor Declared November 17, 2021 Scott Sanchez Day;  
WHEREAS, Scott became the youngest Zoning Administrator for the City & County at the age 
of 35 in 2010 and held the post for approximately eight years;  
WHEREAS, his signature is on the back of enough building permit applications to fill a small 
lateral filing cabinet;  
WHEREAS, his signature is on enough Written Determinations to fill a large lateral filing 
cabinet;  
WHEREAS, his signature is on enough Variance decision letters to fill City Hall, Room 400; 
WHEREAS, he has made enough informal and formal interpretations of the Planning Code 
to fill the memory bank of a small herd of elephants;  
WHEREAS, he has presided over voluminous Variance hearings, generally on the last 
Wednesday of every month;  
WHEREAS, he has thoughtfully and artistically represented the Planning Department before 
the Board of Appeals at over 350 hearings;  
WHEREAS, he has diligently performed his post-hearing responsibility by consuming 
enough wine and gin to fill multiple casks both large and small;  
WHEREAS, he has mentored Planners both young and old; 
WHEREAS, he has guided multiple projects from beginning to end;  

San Francisco Planning Commission