7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 25, 2021 
• Draft Minutes for April 1, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Thank you. I just wanted to note, last week on the 8th, even though we weren't meeting, 
there was a virtual ribbon cutting for a streetscape pilot project out in the Excelsior. And I 
was able to attend via Zoom or I guess it was YouTube, I think, I was watching the ribbon 
cutting on. So, I just wanted to commend the staff who worked hard on that, as well as the 
youth from the Youth Art Exchange. It's a really fabulous program they have, if you’re not 
familiar with it, where they really train children and young people to use their artistic talents 
and to put them to work to making great street furniture and other things. So it’s a really 
wonderful melding of the arts with career building and then having something that is 
tangible out in the community. So, such a great opportunity. And another great example - 
their facility was able to take over a vacant storefront out in the Excelsior neighborhood. So 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 15, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
again, flexing our Planning Code to make sure that we have opportunities for, you know, 
storefront not just to always be a store but to be a really vibrant place for the young people. 
Again, when they can gather together, in person, indoors to have that space. So, just want 
to commend the Supervisor Safai who is helping to lead the project and for Planning 
Department for leading this effort. And I will just say, I’ve worked, when I was with the 
department, on the Excelsior Neighborhood Plan. And so, it’s great to see, even though it 
takes some time, the plan and the ideas coming into fruition over time. So, I just really want 
to commend again the Supervisor, the young people and the staff for their great work. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to thank staff for forwarding a memo regarding the landscape approach to the 0 
Guttenberg project. While I appreciate the thoroughness of submittal, I would like to ask 
that somebody from staff, with a landscape background, look at what is proposed. One, I 
would like to see a confirmation that the planned palate is indeed within the range of what 
the City recommends for this type of landscaping. In addition to that, I would like to raise 
my concerns over the use of synthetic grass in these gardens. I find that somewhat 
inappropriate, do not support it in principle. And I believe that if this comes forward as an 
approval for the Commission, I'd like the Commission to have a voice in the disadvantages 
or advantages of synthetic grass because I do not consider them contributing towards 
quality of life and what a garden is all about. Those are my personal points of view, but I 
would like to see the department to take a closer look at the details of this updated plan. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I wanted to second Commissioner Moore's comments. I did receive from staff the landscape 
plan that was referenced in the memo. I’m not sure that was distributed to all of the 
Commissioners eventually but if it wasn’t it should be. And I too noted what some concern 
the use of synthetic grass. I assume there were good reasons behind the proposal but I 
would like staff to take a hard look at that and see if that's really the direction that makes 
the most sense to go in with these small little patches of synthetic turf sprinkled around this 
complex. But again, I appreciated the memo and the detail and the plans. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I have one question for the director. We are not to direct staff, we're here to basically be in 
dialogue and reflect on what staff is doing. In the past few weeks, a number of errors have 
showed up last minute. And I'm concerned that, for example, with the item that we took off 
Consent today, there was seven or eight errors, which would have in Consent, would have 
stayed, they probably would not have gone noticed. When they come forward and are being 
corrected for us to reflect on as a project that is being heard, I’m concerned about that. That 
somewhat holds I want to ask that question very carefully for what happened on California 
and Polk Street. The non-noticing of the increased height limit, and what does it do when 
this project was heard two years ago, and we did not know about it, would this have opened 
up different opportunities for this project, etc.? This is a constructive question, not a 
criticism, but I'd like to get some guidance from the director on this. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, thank you, Commissioner Moore. And I think, you know, not necessarily similar cases 
there. The California Street error was kind of a change to the height map that was made 20 
or so odd years ago. Still trying to figure out how it happened. So, that was an unusual one. 
But I recognize that the quality control, we've got to step up on some of the reports we send 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 15, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
to you. So, thank you for pointing it out. Commissioner Diamond did the same, and we'll talk 
to folks and make sure that we're doing the best review and reports. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I'd like to just make a general comment, that for all of us on Zoom, where everything is far 
more difficult to communicate with each other as well as in the larger group, there’s room 
for more oversight and errors. Because sometimes you don’t even know what you’re looking 
at is the latest version of what was being discussed since everything is virtual. I see that and 
it creates an extra load for all of us, but when it comes to more critical decisions, it would be 
helpful if that extra minute would be spent to verify that we're all on track. Thank you. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Fair enough.