7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for June 17, 2021 
• Draft Minutes for June 24, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore 
NAYS: 
None 
ABSENT: 
Chan, Koppel 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I'd like to take the opportunity to thank the SFMTA project manager [inaudible] in terms of 
providing me the tour last week, in terms of the Potrero Bus Yard. I learned a lot in that tour 
and I would also suggest or recommend all other Commissioners to attend the tour for the 
Potrero Bus Yard. I learned a lot in terms of the status of the bus yard itself and how it needs 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 8, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 8 
 
modernization. We need to think, we need to prioritize as well, or think or consider about 
the workers of SFMTA. So, as this project is coming along, there are a lot of things that I think 
we need to think through and also how we care about the -- our bus facilities. So, I want to 
thank the SFMTA for providing the tour and for other Commissioners to also take the tour 
with SFMTA. That's all. Thank you. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
And I definitely will, thank you for reminding us Commissioner Imperial. I love to tour a good 
City facility so I will make some time for that. I wanted to likewise thank staff, particularly 
the insider, Rich Sucre,  who helped offer a tour for some high school students under the 
program Operation Genesis  last week of the Planning facility and provide an overview to 
them of what Planning is as a career, but also what it means to be civically engaged in 
Planning matters in their community. And it was a really wonderful couple of hours we spent 
with the two handful of students and just very grateful. I think they were pretty excited. So, 
to get high schools excited about Planning I think that it's a pretty interesting topic. So, just 
wanted to thank the staff for their time on that.