6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 7, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to check with the rest of my fellow Commissioners in this particular round of 
reviewing projects. I ran, due to the size of my computer, which is a normal tablet, I ran into 
great difficulties given the size of drawings and the enormity of information that need to be 
processed. And, I am wondering, also running this by Director Hillis, as to whether or not we 
could start selectively to get hard copies of significantly large projects. O'Farrell, Folsom as 
well, as unfortunately, the Department's Budget Review pose major problems in reviewing 
this time and as we are now going into our 36th or 38th virtual hearing, I think we may have 
to use an interim provision to receive paper copies on these large projects. I'm wondering 
how other Commissioners feel about that. Both the Staff can comment [Inaudible] or Mr. 
Ionin himself is fine.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
Yes. I mean, we can certainly look into doing this. There would, maybe, be a possibility to 
reinstate hard copies being issued to the Commissioners directly from reprographics. I 
mean, maybe we can have that, so that, staff can adhere to the shelter-in-place and only go 
into the office for emergency purposes, but we can certainly look into that Commissioner 
Moore. 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I'd greatly appreciate that.  
 
Commissioner Diamond:    
I wanted to emphatically underscore Commissioner Moore's point. I am having a terrible 
time reviewing the drawings on an iPad or even on a small laptop. The narrative portion is 
fine but the actual drawings, I have to shrink it so small in order to see everything that's on 
and that it's really hard to read all of the notes on it. So, I, you know, especially to the 
drawings, I have previously indicated the same desire for CEQA documents for draft EIRs and 
response to comments. Jonas, your Department has been great about getting those to me. 
I don't know if the other Commissioners feel the same way, but in reviewing those, it's nice 
to have hard copies.  
 
I'd also like to make a -- as long as we're talking about the drawings. It seems like every 
applicant submits their drawings in a slightly different format. Sometimes the proposed and 
existing are around the same page; sometimes they are pages apart; sometimes we get 3D 
models, which are very helpful; sometimes we don't. And I'm wondering if an effort can be 
made if other Commissioners feel the same way, to figure out what works best for us in our 
review and let those become criteria. There may have been efforts led to do this in the past 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
and I don't know what the current status is, but I would be very interested in hearing other 
Commissioners' thoughts on this.  
 
Commissioner Imperial:    
I also support Commissioner Diamond and Commissioner Moore's on the hard copies. As far 
as I know, the EIR is something we requested but it not something that's mandatory. Maybe 
those are things that I think is very important and in terms of the drawings, yes, it's a lot of 
going back and forth on my end as well. And when it comes to other very important 
documents that involves policy or the long-range developments, those things as well I feel 
like may need some more hard copies for myself. This is something that we'll talk about later 
on but the budget is an example that I was having a hard time to just piece everything in. 
So, I support. I guess if I would try to prioritize hard copies, the EIRs, the land use or long-
range development plans or -- and also big or large projects probably something we should 
consider as well. I'm not sure about the Discretionary Review but actually there are those 
graphics as well In the Discretionary Review that sometimes I also have a hard time looking 
into those pictures as well.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I just want to briefly comment on Commissioner Diamond and Commissioner Imperial's 
comment. In the past, it is quite a few years back, previous Commissions had issues with 
inconsistencies of drawing submittals. Some people do a great job. Others do a less desirable 
and hard to understand job. And it's hard without adding lot of extra work to people's 
submittals, making too overly precise demands. However, there is a basic standard which at 
that time was summarized in Submittal Guidelines and I think it's still on the Planning 
Commission's website where there was a little bit more consistency. And I think this may be 
the time to slowly review what was asked then and see if we still stand with that. And then 
have staff basically direct for information that is required from all and not just from some: 
that is the 3D, that is the description of materials, some samples if possible. It's some very 
simple tweaks but we have gone so far to sub-standard submittals that I think 
reconsideration of that at the top among Commissioners [inaudible]. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And to Commissioner Moore's point, we can send out -- Commissioner Moore, I think you 
were very helpful in creating the Plan Submittal Guidelines so others can see it and get your 
feedback.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Thank you, Director Hillis. At that time, we very careful with [inaudible] not to overburden 
people. It needs to have standard that meets the minimum level of expectations.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
And I will certainly convey this message and request to staff during our weekly Commission 
Cases meeting and see if Staff can just start being a little more diligent in plan review when 
they come to the Commission.  
 
Commissioner Fung:    
I'm okay with either way. Whether it's electronic or hard copy. I have a 30-inch monitor and 
a touch screen on my computer. So, either way works for me.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
We won't send you any hard copies Commissioner Fung.  
 
Commissioner Fung:    
Okay. 
 
Commissioner Tanner:    
I was going to second Commissioner Fung for myself. As we roll out how hard copy works, 
maybe there's some items where I want that but generally, I'm okay with electronic. So, I 
will make it a special request to proactively ask that for myself.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
Thank you, I appreciate that. I will poll the Commissioners before we start sending large 
packets to your -- whichever receiving address you gave us. 
 
 
8. 
Election of Officers:  In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the San Francisco 
Planning Commission, the President and Vice President of the Commission shall be elected 
at the first Regular Meeting of the Commission held on or after the 15th day of January of 
each year, or at a subsequent meeting, the date which shall be fixed by the Commission at 
the first Regular Meeting on or after the 15th day of January each year. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Koppel - President, Moore - Vice President 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel