1. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 20, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
2. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
  
  
Commissioner Chan: 
So, a few months ago I shared an update about the inaugural SF Young Planners Internship 
program.  As a reminder, this is a partnership between Planning Department and the 
Mayor’s Opportunities For All initiative really to provide the hands-on training program for 
high school students to explore and dive into the Planning profession. I’m excited to let you 
know that the program actually starts next week, June 7th and goes until August 6 or so. We 
have 15 interns who have been placed in this cohort and also two teaching fellows who will 
be designing and leading the program. I wanted to give shout out especially to Tina Tam of 
the Planning Department for all of her support and work making this program possible. I 
had a chance to meet some of the interns during a pre-program orientation. It looks to be a 
really great cohort. Many of them are really excited to learn more about the city that they 
call home and how they can get involved in shaping the future. The program is going to be 
a hybrid model of both online and outdoor in-person field work. And it is going to cover a 
range of topics – the history of Planning to housing, Zoning, Transportation, Environmental 
Justice and Sustainability, Historical Preservation and so forth. I really appreciate some of 
the Commissioners who mentioned last time that they wanted to be involved. And so, 
Planning staff will be reaching out with some opportunities to connect with the interns 
throughout the program. And please be on the lookout for an invitation for the final 
celebration and graduation at the end.  
 
Lastly, I wanted to share some personal news that I will be taking a leave of absence to focus 
on family. Today will be my last meeting on the Commission. And until then, I look forward 
to returning in a few months and hopefully seeing you all in person at City Hall. Thank you. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission