6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 15, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
This is a request to Director Hillis. In recent months we’ve had a number of projects  before 
us that have raised the question regarding the amount of open space that is provided with 
those projects. And it struck me that it might be useful instead of just looking at these 
projects on a case-by-case basis, to look at the overarching policies that are guiding some of 
our decisions as applied to these projects. Three issues in particular, struck me as warranting 
maybe some analysis and presentation to the Commission. There may be others, but the 
three that jumped out for me are as follows – 1) Why do we have different open space 
standards for Group Housing versus Residential? It seems like the standard for Group 
Housing is less the amount of open space per unit is less than it is for Residential. And I'm 
wondering what the rationale is for that distinction and if it still makes sense, especially in 
light of the very large group housing projects that we are seeing presented to us. Just on the 
face of it. The increased density of those projects makes me question why they have a lower 
open space standard than the standard residential projects. Secondly, I think, the added of 
Covid has shown us how important it is for residence and buildings to have the access to 
open space. A number of us have been asking questions about private balconies so that 
there is access for residence not only to have common open space but to have their own 
individualize open space. And we’ve been made aware that the current standards for 
balconies require that they be actually quite large in order to count as open space, and yet 
we've seen a desire on the part of some of the Commissioners including myself to encourage 
the addition of balconies that are at least large enough to accommodate one or two chairs 
so people can open the doors and just at least sit outside. And I’m wondering if we can take 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 29, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
a look at why it is that the standards discourage people from adding private balconies. It 
seems to me we ought to be doing just the opposite. So, I’m curious about that. And thirdly, 
and I'm not sure there is an answer to this but I'm worrying about it a lot, which is the ability 
to waive open space requirements for State Density bonus projects. The question is how low 
can that go. And that, is there a way for the City to look at its own regulations to at least 
preserve the argument that there is some bare minimum that needs to be provided? 
Because we've seen varying degrees of request for concessions on open space and as we 
look into the future I suspect, I guess we’re going to see a lot more State Density Bonus 
projects. I'm not suggesting that if we look at these issues and decide that changes are 
warranted that we would necessarily apply those changes to projects that are very far long 
in the process. But I do think it's useful if you agree to step back and take a look at the policy 
issues behind open space and see if any changes might be warranted. Or, at least for those 
of us newer on the Commission, to understand why the rules are the way they are right now. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I think we can schedule a discussion because we recognize this issue has come up on various 
projects by various Commissioners. And so, happy to schedule an Informational Item in the 
next couple of months to talk about it. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Thank you. That would be much appreciated. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I was just nodding along with everything that Commissioner Diamond was saying. So, I do 
look forward to that discussion. I wanted to just celebrate a little bit that, I believe yesterday 
I think the City and County was at 69% so hopefully today we're at 70% of residents who 
have their first vaccination, at least one vaccination shot. I'm so proud of our city. I’m so 
proud to live here during the pandemic and I know we have so much heartache and so much 
pain that has happened. But I am just so proud of us for being able to get vaccinated and 
just encourage anyone who hasn’t yet been able to  to consider doing that. Call your friends 
and family who may be in other states and encourage them also to get vaccinated so we can 
hopefully get back to something that looks like fully open California, whatever that looks 
like. I'm really really really thrilled and looking forward to a good summer. And then I also 
wanted to just comment and thank Michael Christensen, who a few weeks ago, authored a 
report for us on Cannabis in San Francisco. So, the report did get read and I really appreciated 
the analysis that you provided of where things are and kind of the status of the Cannabis 
dispensaries in San Francisco, so thank you.