3. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 14, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 13 
 
AYES: 
Tanner, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan, Diamond 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, if you would indulge me for one moment before you get into your particular 
comments. I wanted to introduce a proclamation from the Planning Commission for one 
Kate Hermann Stacy that will be retiring from her post very soon.   
 
“WHERAS the Mayor and Board of Supervisors will proclaim October 29, 2021 Kate Hermann 
Stacy Day; and WHEREAS, she never expected the time spent waitressing would prepare her 
for dealing with difficult situations in public places; and WHEREAS, after graduating from 
the University of Chicago Law School in 1985, Kate began her illustrious career of public 
service in the City Attorney’s Office in 1989; and WHEREAS, since 2007 Kate led the Land Use 
Team with intelligence, integrity, empathy, along with her signature calm and eloquent 
demeanor; and  WHEREAS, as General Counsel to the Planning Commission and Planning 
Department, Kate advised numerous Commissioners, five Planning Directors, five Zoning 
Administrators, and four Environmental Review Officers; and WHEREAS, she earned the 
deep respect of all those with whom she works, and particularly the Planning 
Commissioners and Planning Department Staff; and WHEREAS, enough paper to fill multiple 
chambers in City Hall have crossed Kate’s desk; and WHEREAS, after 32 years, her 
thoughtfulness, creativity and wit will be deeply missed; and WHEREAS, she has truly left 
her mark on the built form of San Francisco, leaving the City in a better place than it would 
have been without her influence; now THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the San Francisco 
Planning Commission, in recognition of the exceptional and extraordinary contributions to 
the City and County of San Francisco by one Kate Herrmann Stacy, issues this Proclamation 
in her honor.” 
 
 
 
President Koppel: 
So I've been on this Commission for five years now and I'm-- back then couldn't have 
imagined what I would have seen and heard since then and so also hats off to you. I can't 
even imagine what you've seen and heard throughout the years and decades of your service. 
I wanted to personally thank you for properly on ramping some new deputy city attorneys 
to help fill the void. It's going to be some big shoes to fill so I really appreciate the fact that 
you brought on Mr. Yang and that everything will pretty much keep running smoothly 
because I'm sure you can't just put anyone in this position. So, I wanted to thank you 
personally for making that transition easy. Selfishly, I'm extremely jealous and I'm already 
counting my years even though it's not anytime soon but enjoy yourself, your free time. 
You've earned it. Congratulations and you will be missed. 
 
 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Kate. Just a huge thanks to you for all you've done, for us in the Department and 
for all you’ve done for me and congrats on your retirement. I've had the good fortune of 
working with Kate for I think two decades now, as a city employee, as a Planning 
Commissioner, and now as director. And I can say without a doubt, she is one of my favorite 
city employees and I think many of the Planning staff would echo that, not just because she's 
a fellow wait staff person, I grew up doing that too, as well as the University of Chicago grad, 
but she's just great at what she does. Her advice is straightforward and practical; you've all 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
seen her in action here. She is incredibly smart and dedicated but probably the most 
important thing is she's just fun to be around and makes our job more enjoyable. Any 
meeting with her is f but we get the answers which is always great. So I can go on and on. 
You know the Giants have an award, the Willie McCovey award which they give to players 
who don't just do their job well but are outstanding people, so if the City had a Willie 
McCovey award, I think it should go to Kate. Well, maybe we’ll create one, the Kate Stacy 
award. But thank you Kate for everything you've done for us and good luck to you.  
 
 
 
 
 
Kate Hermann Stacy, City Attorney: 
President Koppel, Commissioners, Jonas and Planning Department, I can't tell you how 
much I appreciated, here we go, working with you all and I feel this enormous sense of 
gratitude for the many years that I've had the privilege of being able to work with so many 
dedicated, intelligent and creative people. This department is filled with so many impressive 
planners who tackled not only complicated problems who try often cutting edge 
approaches that push the limits and definitely push us as attorneys to think hard about our 
advice to be creative with you.  This Commission works hard every single week. The amount 
of work you do and the thoughtfulness and the intelligence with which you approach often 
very difficult cases and difficult zoning problems is impressive to see every week and I feel 
so lucky to have been able to be a part of it. I respect and appreciate how much you try to 
keep pushing us forward in search of something better to make San Francisco a better place 
and to keep sort of rolling with the changes on trying different policies and solving tough 
issues. I love the hopeful attitude that we can do better that the whole department shows 
in this Commission. And Director Hillis and Jonas, you all continue to be optimists that we 
can do better and in San Francisco mostly we do. We are really at the forefront of so many 
issues that we in turn affect other places and that your concern and care for not only the City 
but the world has been a really wonderful thing to be a part of.  And for 32 years I have loved 
working with the Department and Commission and you’ve kept it interesting and 
challenging and never dull. And thank you for caring so much, for including me in what you 
do, in solving your plans, your puzzles and all of the problems that we face at the 
Commission on a weekly basis and at the Planning Department on a daily basis. It's been an 
incredible two years and it has been so satisfying to be able to work with all of you and I just 
send up an enormous appreciation sense of gratitude for having been part of it. So thank 
you. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
City attorney Stacy, Kate, just with those few words showed us who she really is. It is not just 
advice counsel, it is kindness, it is humanness, and the smile on her face but also sometimes 
sadness in her voice when she speaks for us. I have admired her when she even, when dumb 
questions are sometimes answered, and that is unavoidable, she always brings 
understanding and kindness to her answers. But let me recommend to all of you if any of 
you are subscribing to Linkedin, pull up Kate Stacy's profile and there is a remarkable 
beautiful photo on there that speaks about empathy. I actually wanted to ask to have this 
on the screen today but it takes too long.  Just pull up Linkedin and look at that and when 
you see that photo you know what Kate Stacy is all about. Thank you, Kate. You have been 
a true inspiration. 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
As the one here who has worked with Kate the longest, it's gone over three decades. Thanks 
very much Kate and good luck in your next ventures. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Maybe I'm the one with the shortest at least in this role and so I'll follow Commissioner Fung. 
You know I've had my share of work with city attorneys in my career as a municipal 
employee myself and I think what sets you apart Kate, you and your team are that you are 
not just saying “well that's risky, we can't do that”, you're saying “how might we do this in a 
way that could limit the city's risk and achieve the policy objectives that we have”. And I 
think that attitude is what sets San Francisco apart from other cities and allows us to push 
the envelope and sometimes we get it wrong or at least courts tell us we did but we figure 
it out. And so, it's just been great to work with you, even as a planner and here as a 
Commissioner. Your reputation precedes you in many many instances and many many 
rooms and I think in all in a great way. And I am sure that when we think about public service 
and inspiring people to go to public service, you are the type of public servant that is 
inspiring that we can be do really fun amazing things on behalf of the public. And I hope you 
feel so proud of the work that you've done and the other lawyers I'm sure you've inspired 
and counsel and help to serve the City as well. Good luck and best wishes in whatever 
endeavors that you choose after you retire. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I’m glad I did not have to report to jury duty today because I will miss this day. I didn't know 
that but in a short matter of time that I've worked with you I again just like others you set a 
good role and good advice for us in the Planning Commission . I always also look up to your 
advice as well and when you give advice, you give us not just the two scenarios or different 
scenarios that may happen. And it's really tough and I don't know how you all do this with 
tackling different policies and how it may outcome to us but again, thank you for all the 
service you have provided to the City. And you're one of the people why the City is great. 
 
 
 
Kate Hermann Stacy, City Attorney: 
Thank you all so much. You are so generous and kind and I look forward to more great things 
from the Department and from the Commission. And I know Austin Yang and Kristen Jensen 
also love working with you all and my whole team loves working with the Planning 
Department . You will continue to do great things all of you together. Thank you so much. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
 
Thank you, Kate. Really, thank you.