6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 4, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Chan:    
Thank you. So, the Spring Equinox is just around the corner. I know that many of us are 
looking forward to longer days and seeing the light at the end of the tunnel especially as 
we emerge from a really long winter and a difficult and challenging year. Especially for 
many of our youth and families with children. I’ve been really pleased to see that the City 
overall is investing in programs for our youth this summer and delighted to announce that 
this summer, San Francisco Youth will actually have one more option to choose from, 
especially if they are interested in exploring Urban Planning as a possible career path, and 
that is with the launch of our San Francisco Young Planners Fellowship Program. So, for 
several months now staff from Planning, together with our partners from Opportunities for 
All, YouthWorks, The Human Rights Commission, and Teachers for Social Justice have 
worked to craft this fellowship program. And the mission is to provide paid opportunities 
for young leaders between the ages of 16 and 18 to explore the profession of Urban 
Planning really using the City of San Francisco as a living and breathing laboratory for 
knowledge. During this 8-week program, fellows are match with Planning Department 
staff to work on a meaningful project under their mentorship and the fellows will also 
participate in seminars, walking and biking tours, and fieldwork to really have a holistic 
experience so introduction to Urban Planning. I’m especially excited that this program will 
prioritize youths from underrepresented demographics in the Planning profession so 
especially American Indian, Black, Lennox, as well as women and students from 
communities of color. And I want to emphasize that we specially want to encourage youth 
who are from neighborhoods with histories of Urban Youth Development and with lived 

San Francisco Planning Commission