7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 29, 2021 – Joint Rec and Park 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – Motions 
 
Jonas P. Ionin – Response to questions 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan, Moore 
 
• Draft Minutes for July 29, 2021 – Regular Hearing 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan, Moore 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I just had a question for Director Hillis, and maybe other staff who want to respond. I'm just 
curious how things are going. I know we kind of reopened, and maybe there's been some 
hiccups in terms of public service at the counters, but I'm assuming we've been able to 
maintain some appointments for those who are doing in-person work with our staff and 
other City agencies. Just on the inside, maybe as part of your update on how things are going 
as the Delta variant has been just challenging many organizations and their reopening 
efforts. That's all.  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Commissioner Tanner, happy to – you know, I was going to mention this during my 
comments. But you know, we continue to be open for all services at 49 South Van Ness. We 
were kind of phasing out with DBI the permit system. So, back to kind of how we did things 
pre-pandemic with the ability to walk up and get information and approvals over the 
counter during regular business hours. One thing that has changed is the City Administrator 
issued guidance this week that for employees working -- employees telecommuting, which 
is a significant number of our staff, the original date to kind of to come back to the office 
was in early September, just after the Labor Day. That has been pushed back to November 
1st  as the date. So, most of our staff will continue to telecommute until November 1st and 
then to a hybrid in the office and telecommuting. So, I imagine that's going to be the case, 
as well, for in-person Commission hearings, that they won't start until at least early 
November.  
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I appreciate that.  
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission