4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for September 23, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted as amended 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Commissioners, this week, I believe we all received a letter from Georgia Schuttish, asking 
us to hold a hearing on the demo calcs. At least for the two years that I've been on the 
Commission, Ms. Schuttish has been incredibly persistent in raising this issue, and virtually 
every hearing. And I'm wondering, Director Hillis, if it might be useful, now that section 317 
– I’m going to stop for a second because I also hear the blue angels, I'm just going to let 
them pass. I'm wondering if it might be useful, now that 317 has been in effect for a number 
of years, to step back and look at what the underlying policy goals were and what the 
experience has been. What we have accomplished, what's working, what's not working, and 
have a hearing that's broader than just revising the demo calcs but looking at the whole 
issue in general. I think it's a good idea, when we adopt a new policy to see how it is actually 
worked out in practice and see whether or not any tinkering or broader amendments are 
necessary in order to accomplish those goals.  So, I was curious about your thoughts on that 
type of thing. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 10 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. And you know, recognized as well for the eight years that I sat on the Commission prior 
to you, I think for most of them Miss Schuttish has brought up issues up around demolition 
and the policy and our controls. So, I very much agree that it is something we can put 
together an Informational Presentation. Some of these issues have obviously come up, 
whether it’s during Supervisor Mandelman’s Large Residence ordinance or prior when we 
were doing the residential expansion threshold, which was about five years, but we do have 
fourteen or so years under our belt with this provision of 317. So, I think as well as looking 
at Miss Schuttish's questions about the specifics around the demo calcs and how they are 
working, your notion about looking broadly at the policy and whether they're actually doing 
as intended, we can take on. I think it'll take us a bit to gather info and data to have a 
meaningful discussion. So, if you give us a couple of months, maybe early next year, we can 
accomplish that. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
That would be great. It does seem to me that it takes a large amount of the Department 
time. City Planning and maybe the Building Department as well. And so, it would be useful 
to just step back and see whether or not, as currently drafted, it's working for whatever the 
goal was at the time that was adopted. Thank you. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And obviously taking a lot of your time too. There's a lot of these CUs on your calendar. So, 
happy to do that. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I would also add in terms of the demolition discussion that were hope to have, for me, I 
would like to see the discrepancies between the DBI and Planning. I think there are a lot of 
issues that even I still need more clarification, and I think it will be benefit for us, for 
Commissioners, to understand those things. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. We can do that, as well. 
 
6. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for the 
next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] at a 
commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Jonas P. Ionin – Staff Report 
 
Sue Hestor – Public meeting requested 
 
Georgia Schuttish – Increase time for public to speak 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
RESOLUTION: 
21007 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10