6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 4, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Chan:    
Thank you. So, the Spring Equinox is just around the corner. I know that many of us are 
looking forward to longer days and seeing the light at the end of the tunnel especially as 
we emerge from a really long winter and a difficult and challenging year. Especially for 
many of our youth and families with children. I’ve been really pleased to see that the City 
overall is investing in programs for our youth this summer and delighted to announce that 
this summer, San Francisco Youth will actually have one more option to choose from, 
especially if they are interested in exploring Urban Planning as a possible career path, and 
that is with the launch of our San Francisco Young Planners Fellowship Program. So, for 
several months now staff from Planning, together with our partners from Opportunities for 
All, YouthWorks, The Human Rights Commission, and Teachers for Social Justice have 
worked to craft this fellowship program. And the mission is to provide paid opportunities 
for young leaders between the ages of 16 and 18 to explore the profession of Urban 
Planning really using the City of San Francisco as a living and breathing laboratory for 
knowledge. During this 8-week program, fellows are match with Planning Department 
staff to work on a meaningful project under their mentorship and the fellows will also 
participate in seminars, walking and biking tours, and fieldwork to really have a holistic 
experience so introduction to Urban Planning. I’m especially excited that this program will 
prioritize youths from underrepresented demographics in the Planning profession so 
especially American Indian, Black, Lennox, as well as women and students from 
communities of color. And I want to emphasize that we specially want to encourage youth 
who are from neighborhoods with histories of Urban Youth Development and with lived 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
experiences in public housing, single-room occupancy hotels, and affordable housing 
projects. I have to say this project has been a dream for me for about eight years or more 
since I cofounded the Chinatown Urban Institute in 2012, which was an effort to establish a 
community based program to really teach and introduce Urban Planning in a way that is 
accessible to youth and really act at grassroots level. And having gone through that 
experience, I think many of our alumni from the Chinatown Urban institute have gone on 
to pursue graduate degrees and Planning related fields. They are now working in 
Affordable Housing NGOs in various city agencies here in San Francisco and beyond.  And 
so, I'm just really excited to see more of these types of programs and especially the 
opportunity to have those be expanded citywide. I think it's safe to say that many of our 
youth growing up in San Francisco have a lot of expertise and knowledge about how the 
city works. They have ideas and visions for the future of the City, and I think you know, 
these types of programs will not only serve to bring these valuable perspectives to the 
Urban Planning field, but in the long-term, allow the profession to be all the stronger for it.  
 
So to apply, the San Francisco Young Planners application is currently live, and you can 
find more information on the Planning Department website, I believe on the front page, 
under news, and that will take you to the Opportunities For All application, and from there, 
you can specify that you're applying specifically for the SF Young Planners program. I do 
want to take a moment just to thank everyone who was involved with making this 
program possible so specially Tina Tam, Tom DiSanto, Candace SooHoo from the Planning 
Department, [inaudible] Williams, Danielle Glover, Lisa Nguyen From Opportunities For All, 
Nicolle Rodriguez, [Inaudible], Alvin Woo from YouthWorks, Director Sheryl Davis from the 
Human Rights Commission, and Jeremiah Jeffreys from Teachers for Social Justice. And of 
course I want to thank Director Hillis for your support and to my fellow Commissioners for 
unanimously adopting the resolution for centering the department’s work and budget on 
Racial and Social Equity last June of which I think this program is one of the many concrete 
outcomes to come out of that. So, I’m very much looking forward to this program to 
welcoming the first cohort of the SF Youth Planners program and to see what they will 
achieve and moving forward and shaping the future of our city. Thank you. 
 
President Koppel:    
Thank you so much Commissioner Chan. We already spend enough time working on the 
packets and attending to phone calls and emails and spending time at the hearings here. 
So, for all to see this announcement today, super proud of your work in the department 
and a very admirable job. Thank you again.  
 
Commissioner Moore:  
Commissioner Chan, amazing work. You have been very quiet about it, and I congratulate 
you for doing this. What is the time frame in which these young planners will be involved? 
Is this in addition to the summer intern program? Is it tied together?  There is a lot of room 
for having other people stand by and help those young people understand Planning and 
what it means?  
 
Commissioner Chan:    
Sure. So, I think the program will take place from June -- I forgot the exact dates, but early 
June to mid-August. Essentially, it’s a cohort that’s entering together and undergoing kind 
of the seminar, these training; it's kind of a package of tours and then working on a project 
that they'll provide a final deliverable at the end of it. So, I think that the Planning 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
Department has had its really robust internship program, and I think we're excited to add 
to this line up and especially prioritizing the youth that we've mentioned so far.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
So, this will be in addition to the Intern Program.  
 
Commissioner Chan:    
Yes, I believe so.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Good. That's great. I hope that you will call on Commissioners to help. I myself have 
actually tutored Planning students. I’m in APA for a number of years, and it's a very 
rewarding thing to do. Particularly when you ultimately see them entering the career or 
entering the profession as it is the case here with me. Thank you and I’m delighted to 
support in whatever form I can.   
 
I wanted to actually thank staff for putting out printed packages which I hope my fellow 
Commissioners also have received. It is extremely helpful and really much easier to work 
and get into the depths particularly when it comes to larger projects. Last time around, I 
had two copies of the more voluminous Pine Street project. I called Mr. Ionin to pass it 
onto somebody but perhaps everybody has their packages. I hope that they will continue 
this.  I found this very, very helpful, and I wanted to thank staff for supplying us with that 
information. Thanks a lot.  
 
Commissioner Tanner:    
I just wanted to add on to – or Mr. Ionin, do you want to say something about the packets? 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
I was just going to thank Commissioner Moore for acknowledging staff that are in the 
office and printing the packets for you and sending them out and delivering them. I didn't 
see you were still in the queue. Sorry.  
 
Commissioner Tanner:    
It's no worries. I just wanted to second what Commissioner Moore said. If there’s any, I'm 
so excited about this Young Planners fellowship. It’s really quite amazing. I know it took 
some time and I’m glad that the vision that you had, Commissioner Chan, from eight years, 
is coming true. And I know many of the staff had wanted to do something similar. So, 
really just, I’m so happy and so excited. So, if you do need things over the course this 
summer, I'm happy to lend my voice in whatever way it is needed or whatever the young 
planners need or staff need that can further their experience. Happy to lend a voice. I know 
myself; I was one of few – one of the only black women in my Graduate School program in 
my class.  And so, we know we have a lot of ways to go in the Planning profession to have 
more women, more women of color, more people of color overall in the Planning field. So, 
this is going to go a long way towards you know, folks dreaming of what do they want to 
be when they grow up becoming a City Planner, which is pretty exciting. 
 
I also wanted to just touch on the wave of base motivated violence we've been having in 
the Bay Area and really across the country. And I know it's been really difficult for our Asian 
American communities to deal with what's been going on, especially in the wake of the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 10 
 
shooting yesterday in Atlanta, which is tragic. Whether or not the perpetrator or that crime 
states that there was any race-based motivation to his actions or not, it's so quite chilling 
for many of us and very sad, very shocking, and very frustrating and many, many emotions. 
So, I just want to encourage folks, it can be hard to know what to do in times like this. 
Certainly, reaching out to each other, coming together, showing strength and kindness to 
each other is needed. We also have a really great program that started here in the bay 
area, the AAPI Stop Hate, where you can report hate crimes. So, if you witness a hate crime, 
if you are the victim of a hate crime, please report it. And they started this I believe last 
year and continuing to collect incidences of hate crime that go on from the large to the 
small. So, that’s one step that we can all take if we do witness something or we experience 
something. So, I hope that we can see an end to race motivated violence, and certainly 
that we can all come together to denounce these actions, to teach our young people, to 
embrace and to care for each other and not judge each other and certainly not to have any 
acts of violence or otherwise against people based on their race. So, I know it's a tough 
time for many in our community, and I just want to say that we see you and we're with you 
in spirit, and our hearts are also grieving for these past week’s incidents.  
 
President Koppel:    
Very well said, Commissioner Tanner. Commissioner Moore?  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I was respectfully pausing to acknowledge what Commissioner Tanner said. I want to 
move on and encourage Commissioner Chan as well as Commissioner Tanner to also think 
about the civic side of the Young Student Program, the Young Planner's Program. Being a 
Commissioner does not require necessarily to be a Planner. It helps, and we have several 
people who are doing that. But when it comes to introducing young people in that age 
group to what the profession allows, being a Commissioner and being a citizen is part of it. 
And I would love to introduce that element into the program including potentially we 
Commissioners talking to young people to reveal a little bit about that part, that part of 
involvement. Thanks.