2. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 28, 2021 
• Draft Minutes for February 4, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
3. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Good afternoon Commissioners. Just want to remind everyone that it is still Black History 
Month for about a week and a half longer. Hard to believe we’re most of the way through 
February already, but just want to encourage folks even though you have to maybe shelter 
in place or not get out as much, there are great number of online events and also a lot of 
great films on streaming if you want to celebrate Black History Month in that way. So, 
happy Black History Month everyone. 
 
 
 
 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
I have a request for the Director. Recent news has brought forth, a couple of programs are 
being discussed related to the elimination of Exclusionary Zoning, specifically in Berkeley 
and Sacramento. And I think perhaps it would also be interesting to see what Portland is 
doing since they are a larger urban setting. Would it be possible for staff to provide an 
analysis and summary of what is being proposed there in those programs to the 
Commission? 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Absolutely Commissioner. We will do that. We’re going to be before you too in – I believe 
in March to talk about our Housing Element Work which this will certainly be a topic of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 9 
 
discussion during that presentation, but in advance of that, happy to provide you with 
information on what other jurisdictions are doing. As well, I think we talked about 
Supervisor Mandelman’s legislation…  
 
 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
 
 
Right. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
That’s being proposed because he hasn’t submitted or he hasn’t submitted it yet. But he 
intends to submit legislation that would upzone – some areas still do allow fourplexes 
currently areas zoned RH-1 to RH-3 to allow fourplexes around train stations and on corner 
lots, but we’ll provide you with an update. Sacramento, I think, is doing it as part of their 
General Plan update, so, they kind of announced it and indicated that’s the direction they 
are going. I don’t think they legislated it yet, but happy to provide those details. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
 
 
Great. Thank you.