6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 7, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to check with the rest of my fellow Commissioners in this particular round of 
reviewing projects. I ran, due to the size of my computer, which is a normal tablet, I ran into 
great difficulties given the size of drawings and the enormity of information that need to be 
processed. And, I am wondering, also running this by Director Hillis, as to whether or not we 
could start selectively to get hard copies of significantly large projects. O'Farrell, Folsom as 
well, as unfortunately, the Department's Budget Review pose major problems in reviewing 
this time and as we are now going into our 36th or 38th virtual hearing, I think we may have 
to use an interim provision to receive paper copies on these large projects. I'm wondering 
how other Commissioners feel about that. Both the Staff can comment [Inaudible] or Mr. 
Ionin himself is fine.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
Yes. I mean, we can certainly look into doing this. There would, maybe, be a possibility to 
reinstate hard copies being issued to the Commissioners directly from reprographics. I 
mean, maybe we can have that, so that, staff can adhere to the shelter-in-place and only go 
into the office for emergency purposes, but we can certainly look into that Commissioner 
Moore. 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I'd greatly appreciate that.  
 
Commissioner Diamond:    
I wanted to emphatically underscore Commissioner Moore's point. I am having a terrible 
time reviewing the drawings on an iPad or even on a small laptop. The narrative portion is 
fine but the actual drawings, I have to shrink it so small in order to see everything that's on 
and that it's really hard to read all of the notes on it. So, I, you know, especially to the 
drawings, I have previously indicated the same desire for CEQA documents for draft EIRs and 
response to comments. Jonas, your Department has been great about getting those to me. 
I don't know if the other Commissioners feel the same way, but in reviewing those, it's nice 
to have hard copies.  
 
I'd also like to make a -- as long as we're talking about the drawings. It seems like every 
applicant submits their drawings in a slightly different format. Sometimes the proposed and 
existing are around the same page; sometimes they are pages apart; sometimes we get 3D 
models, which are very helpful; sometimes we don't. And I'm wondering if an effort can be 
made if other Commissioners feel the same way, to figure out what works best for us in our 
review and let those become criteria. There may have been efforts led to do this in the past 

San Francisco Planning Commission