6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 18, 2021 – Closed Session 
• Draft Minutes for February 18, 2021 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Hello, everyone, just wanted to wish everyone a happy Women's History Month in March 
as it just began. So, hopefully you can all celebrate all the women in your lives and also 
historical figures. So, moving into another fun month and of course really happy to see the 
City moving to the Red Tier. I don't know Director Hillis if you have any updates on how 
that might change anything for the Department, if we expect to see more Shared Spaces 
opening. I know we have had that underway to help with the businesses and just curious if 
there are any changes afoot with the Shared Spaces Program or other kind of business 
related recovery programs. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
You know, related to that, obviously, indoor dining and kind of, you know, easing of 
restrictions on indoor dining. With Shared Spaces we will be coming to you in the next 
couple of months with the hopes to make that program permanent. So, you know, 
hopefully we can continue to enjoy Shared Spaces post COVID and allow businesses to 
occupy those spaces formally used for cars. So, we look forward to that discussion in the 
future. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 4, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Sure. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Question here. There were two articles in the press recently and I'm wondering what the 
Planning Department's role in them is: one had to do with the large number of vacancies in 
Japantown and concern about the ability to retain the cultural integrity of the place. You 
know, when I first joined the Commission, one of the first items we heard was the adoption 
of the Cultural Heritage District and I was curious what the status of that was and the 
involvement of the Department. And then secondly, there was an article either in today or 
yesterday's paper about a developer having -- McFarlane Partners, having submitted an 
application for a project in the Fillmore. And I'm wondering if that was an application to 
the Planning Department or to some other entity within the City. If you could give us some 
background on that. It sounded like, you know, a very, very large project. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes. So, taking the last one first, Freedom West, which is a four-block existing project in the 
Western Addition. They did submit that project application to Planning, obviously, it's in its 
initial stages. We would have to go through, you know, the project that's envisioned in the 
application, changes to the zoning, probably a DA, obviously environmental review. So 
that process is starting, and this is the first step, their submission of that project 
application. So, a lot more to come on that, but yes that was [Inaudible] and surely there 
are other agencies involved. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Director Hillis, for that kind of project, I am hoping that you would set up some kind of 
study session or information session so that the Commission gets to ask questions rather 
than waiting until it's brought to us for approval. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Sure, we can definitely do that. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And then second on Japantown - there are a couple of things happening and there are a 
couple of things in place. One, when the existing property owner bought that, the malls,  
or a portion of the malls about, I think a decade ago, there were negotiated covenants 
between the City and the property owner to help preserve the heritage of Japantown and 
the types of businesses that are there. Those covenants expired and so the City is working 
with the community on possibly replacing those covenants, but it was, you know, done 
somewhat voluntarily by them, by the property owner. They're also at a time was passed a 
Special Use District. And so, we are also working with the community to kind of analyze 
how effective that's been and potentially revise that Special Use District to make changes 
and bring it back to you -- obviously it have to come back to you for adoption. We're 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 4, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
working with the community on both those fronts to assist in the continued vibrancy and 
preservation of Japantown. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Commissioner Diamond's comment triggered a thought that I'd like to share. Around the 
world, cities are experiencing the same type of difficulties that we do. And I read 
something quite interesting yesterday. The City of Hamelin, who all knows the City helm 
being where the Pied Piper Pan originated, that is a Medieval City in Germany.  It is starting 
to protect its downtown, which is a small commercial area, like as one of our 
neighborhood corridors by instituting a rent-free use of all commercial spaces. That is a 
difficult task to undertake but something that one might consider in particular areas i.e. 
what Commissioner Diamond mentioned or other parts of town. That takes a lot of 
organization, but it has a lot of potential effectiveness because people are still shopping. 
It's just difficult when there's only one store open when the next to each other stores is 
what attracts people to come. I just want to hang that out to you. I found it rather 
interesting and potentially [inaudible] that we may entertain in our certain parts here 
ourselves. Thank you.