8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 18, 2021 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 1, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:   
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to ask the Department as to whether or not the group that is  looking at Social and 
Racial Equity has been looking at the 2021 Inclusion Equity Bill issued by the State of 
California. There is one called ACA1 and SCA1. That is been coming the forefront and I would 
like us to stay on top of it in order to inform ourselves what is being discussed and under 
what particular subject headings. There was another bill I heard about and that is called the 
Social Housing Bill referenced as AB387. As we are looking for other tools and finding 
financing for inclusionary housing or affordable housing, I’d like to see as to whether or not 
that applies in any form or shape to us here in San Francisco. That is all. Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore and President Koppel. I have more of a follow up to 
Director Hillis regarding the SB330 as to, if, what's the status of that and when, if ever we 
can have a presentation or some sort of report in terms of the local implementation of the 
SB330 especially when it comes to continuances. So, I know if perhaps, if there's a timeline 
when the Planning Commission can have some sort of presentation on the SB330 local 
implementation, that would be great. That's all.  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
On both those items, as we do, every year, we're tracking the bills. Many again are kind of 
related to housing issues. So, you know, it's a little tricky because these works their way 
through the process, some just fall off and get amended significantly. So, I'm happy to 
schedule in the next couple of weeks or months to have a discussion or just to give you a 
briefing on those bills. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Just my point is these, since we’ve heard comments about the definition or clarification of 
continuances and we continue to have continuances, I think it’s good to have,, an 
immediate clarification on that so that  we are  you know implementing the SB330 
properly for our jurisdiction.   
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Thank you. I just want to bring up something we've talked about before but with continuing 
application for cannabis dispensaries. I still remain concerned about the overall inflow; it's 
certainly great to see empty store fronts becoming not empty anymore and to be providing 
more equity in the geographic distribution of cannabis dispensaries, but I am concerned 
that, you know just looking back in history, we're kind of repeating ourselves. So, I don't 
want to equate cannabis with cigarettes, but cigarettes used to be sold everywhere and now 
we have rules in the city that [inaudible] diminished the number of locations where 
cigarettes are sold. Same thing with alcohol sales, we have controls trying to diminish the 
amount of alcohol sales in locations. I just wonder, at what point, are we as the Commission 
and if anybody on the Board is thinking about having actual caps for different areas of the 
city. We can distribute to equity and still have so many. Those challenges in the industry in 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 1, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
terms of saturation and, then also, I just worry at some point we'll be kind of rolled back and 
telling folks they can't renew their business license or they can't have their business 
anymore because now we decide they're out of fashion and it's too many in the city. It's hard 
to make a decision just on each cannabis dispensary. We can certainly look at the merits of 
it, the situation of that building, its location, its proximity to other locations but I still feel at 
a loss for thinking kind of comprehensively about the distribution of cannabis dispensaries 
across the city and I don't know if other Commissioners share my concern, but I guess I'm 
looking, Director, to understand what we can do at this level? You know, understanding 
Obviously, the Board would have to create caps or any other type of refinement to the 
location that dispensaries can be allowed. So would love to hear if other Commissioners are 
interested in this and from the Director what we can do on this from the Commission. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, Commissioner Tanner for bringing that up. That’s also what I think we've had 
that discussion before and we have brought that up in terms of the racial and social equity 
of the make-up of the cannabis retail and even with the Office of Cannabis itself the question 
about equity. You know, I think right now, we have a cap of about four applicants that can 
establish a cannabis retail and I think that's a good question for Office of Cannabis and also 
for us to look into the racial and social equity make-up of it and what kind of cannabis retail 
are we -- you know. I know in planning, we always talk about the use and not the user, but 
if we're talking about, you know, a big corporation will be that something is considered as a 
form of equity even though we have scattered it somewhere. So it's a good type for us to 
look into it, but yeah, I do share your sentiment, Commissioner Tanner.  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Commissioner Tanner, just a follow up too, we can certainly schedule a time to talk to you 
all. Obviously, the rules are relatively new on cannabis retail, but there are limits on where 
retailers can go. There's the green zone that’s kind of in response to the 300--the radius 
around schools, you know, they're kind of educational facilities and then there's the 
clustering rules as well, which have limited where retailers can go and so we can certainly 
show you where they have gone and where applications are and invite the Office of 
Cannabis back too to talk about this globally again. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
 
Thank you, Director Hillis. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I do share Commissioner Tanner's concern that particularly during this time with the large 
vacancies and sensitive commercial corridors that permitting too many of them would 
produce what I call the Starbucks phenomenon. Many, many, many, many  years ago, 
everybody thought Starbucks would be the cure for urbanity and it's so much went a 
different way. I'm just going to leave it at that because we're not supposed to have 
discussions about something which is not on the agenda. I'll leave it at that.