4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 22, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted as Amended 
AYES:  
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
 
• Draft Minutes for September 2, 2021 
• Draft Minutes for September 9, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Thank you so much for filling in this afternoon, also for Jonas, you're doing a great job. So 
thank you for leading us through. I wanted to ask and you may address this, Director Hillis 
in your comments, but there have been a flurry of state laws that are being adopted and 
signed by the governor and just wondering how you're planning to bring those to us. And 
in particular which ones are you thinking that will require implementing legislation? My 
read on SB9 is that there's some latitude for design review and certain requirements that 
we can have and just how you're thinking of approaching that legislation in particular. But 
there will be other pieces that we also need to address as well. That's my question. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Commissioner Tanner. So, we've got a hearing on calendar for October 21st to 
talk about SB9 and 10. Their implications and potentially talk about any changes to our 
code that we have to make to implement those. I think they seem fairly straightforward 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 23, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
but when you get in to the details of analyzing them and how they intersect with both our 
existing code and existing state laws especially around ADUs, it gets complicated, 
especially SB9 fairly quickly. So it may seem that's a bit far out but we wanted that time to 
make sure we can answer those questions and bring them to you and have a robust 
discussion. So that is scheduled for the 21st. 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Thank you.