6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 28, 2021 
• Draft Minutes for November 4, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, if you would indulge me for one moment. We have another departure from 
our City family and Mr. Scott Sanchez, if you could make yourself visible. Thank you. And this 
time I will make myself the presenter before I share my screen. Mr. Sanchez has decided to 
leave the Planning Department yet again. And so, we have prepared this proclamation for 
him and hopefully you can all see this screen. Similar to the one for Kate Stacey.  
 
“This Proclamation is in the honor of Scott Sanchez.  
WHEREAS, Scott Sanchez began his illustrious career with the San Francisco Planning 
Department in 1999 as an intern;  
WHEREAS, the Mayor Declared November 17, 2021 Scott Sanchez Day;  
WHEREAS, Scott became the youngest Zoning Administrator for the City & County at the age 
of 35 in 2010 and held the post for approximately eight years;  
WHEREAS, his signature is on the back of enough building permit applications to fill a small 
lateral filing cabinet;  
WHEREAS, his signature is on enough Written Determinations to fill a large lateral filing 
cabinet;  
WHEREAS, his signature is on enough Variance decision letters to fill City Hall, Room 400; 
WHEREAS, he has made enough informal and formal interpretations of the Planning Code 
to fill the memory bank of a small herd of elephants;  
WHEREAS, he has presided over voluminous Variance hearings, generally on the last 
Wednesday of every month;  
WHEREAS, he has thoughtfully and artistically represented the Planning Department before 
the Board of Appeals at over 350 hearings;  
WHEREAS, he has diligently performed his post-hearing responsibility by consuming 
enough wine and gin to fill multiple casks both large and small;  
WHEREAS, he has mentored Planners both young and old; 
WHEREAS, he has guided multiple projects from beginning to end;  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 16 
 
WHEREAS, he occasionally considers enrolling into the Academy of Art and driving one of 
their fancy cars;  
WHEREAS, Scott has joined the Department, left, re-joined and left, and has decided to leave 
again;  
WHEREAS, his colleagues, friends at the Department look forward to his return;  
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the San Francisco Planning Commission in recognition of 
the exceptional and extraordinary contributions to the City and County of San Francisco by 
one Scott Sanchezn, issues this Proclamation in his honor”. 
 
 
Scott Sanchez, Deputy Zoning Administrator: 
Thank you, Jonas. Thank you so much. That’s amazing.  If I maybe just briefly say, I just I have 
been so proud to work for the Planning Department and I have such a tremendous set of 
colleagues here. I have learned a lot more than I ever thought possible, both personally and 
professionally. And to speak to the Commission, just thank you for your support over the 
years especially when I was Zoning Administrator. In particular for your concern and 
attention to enforcement and ensuring that our codes are properly and adequately 
enforced. That we have independent and proper oversight of our rules. And I just wanted 
maybe shared one memory at my first hearing as Zoning Administrator and probably 
looking a bit lost. Like Commissioner Ron Miguel just turned to me and said, “just do what 
you think is right.” And I feel like I’ve been able to do that because of the support of the 
Commission and the support of the Department over all these years. Thank you for this 
opportunity. I really appreciate it.  
 
 
President Koppel: 
Thanks Scott. Let me just start by saying that I met you when I was not on the Commission 
on the other side of the dais and I always respected your ability to handle what seemed like 
an incredibly always full plate. Just dealing with the Academy of Art and its issues back then 
but everything else you were working on at the same time. So, nothing but respect for you 
and wish you all the best.  
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I too met you Scott when I was on the other side and I just want to let you know how much 
I appreciated your wisdom and diligence and how inspired I felt with confidence whenever 
you were weighing in. And that we will miss you and hopefully you will return. So thank you 
for all your years of service. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Chiming in. I met Scott in the seat where I am now and that is a while back. And I couldn’t 
be happier seeing the dual message that the Department wrote in your farewell and I fully 
recognize the subtlety of your great accomplishments. However, who you also are as a 
person and how much appreciated you are for all of your attributes and your personality 
have brought you in this particular position. I hope that this is only a good-bye and see you 
soon. Thank you. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just huge thanks to Scott. I can't imagine it but -- I mean, I've only known the Planning 
Department with Scott in it as- I got to know him first as a member of the Board of Appeals 
with Commissioner Fung and he was always thoughtful whether the issue was complex or 
fairly straight forward and taught us a lot and he continued to teach me a lot both as a 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 16 
 
Planning Commissioner and as the Director, it's hard to imagine the Department without 
him but sincerely appreciate his work here and thank him for his service. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I just wanted to say, Mr. Sanchez, thank you so much for all of your efforts and work 
supporting us and it's been great working with you. Sometimes like in our code to kind of a 
religious text and it's very complex, it has a lot of layers that contradict each other that 
evolve over time, you kind of have to know the history and the conversation with itself. And 
I don’t know if that makes you our pope or what. But you certainly understand the 
complexity and help us navigate and understand what it's trying to say, what it's trying to 
achieve to help our City be a thriving place to live. We will certainly miss you and we'll see if 
you don't turn up again here some time. Thanks for all your great work. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
Scott, having already given accolades to you multiple times in regard to your retirement, I’m 
not intending to say anything nice. Only good luck and stay in touch. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commissioner Secretary: 
 
Indeed Scott. Take care.