6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 15, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
This is a request to Director Hillis. In recent months we’ve had a number of projects  before 
us that have raised the question regarding the amount of open space that is provided with 
those projects. And it struck me that it might be useful instead of just looking at these 
projects on a case-by-case basis, to look at the overarching policies that are guiding some of 
our decisions as applied to these projects. Three issues in particular, struck me as warranting 
maybe some analysis and presentation to the Commission. There may be others, but the 
three that jumped out for me are as follows – 1) Why do we have different open space 
standards for Group Housing versus Residential? It seems like the standard for Group 
Housing is less the amount of open space per unit is less than it is for Residential. And I'm 
wondering what the rationale is for that distinction and if it still makes sense, especially in 
light of the very large group housing projects that we are seeing presented to us. Just on the 
face of it. The increased density of those projects makes me question why they have a lower 
open space standard than the standard residential projects. Secondly, I think, the added of 
Covid has shown us how important it is for residence and buildings to have the access to 
open space. A number of us have been asking questions about private balconies so that 
there is access for residence not only to have common open space but to have their own 
individualize open space. And we’ve been made aware that the current standards for 
balconies require that they be actually quite large in order to count as open space, and yet 
we've seen a desire on the part of some of the Commissioners including myself to encourage 
the addition of balconies that are at least large enough to accommodate one or two chairs 
so people can open the doors and just at least sit outside. And I’m wondering if we can take 

San Francisco Planning Commission