5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 25, 2021 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 11, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 11 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Thank you. Just want to make a comment and a question to Director Hillis. You know, we 
are slowly reopening things and I know it will be a while before we have any sense of 
heard immunity or even how vaccines and variants are going, but I do look forward, 
hopefully sometime this calendar year being in the chamber with all of you at a Planning 
Commission meeting in person. But I also think for many of us there is no going back just 
to the way things were. The genie is out of the bottle, we can do things remotely, we can 
figure out how to have people engaged even if they are not with us physically. And so I just 
want to hope -- I hope that we as a City are able to take some of the good that we have 
learned in terms of public engagement and remote meetings or remote engagement 
beyond just emails that members of the public can send in. So, I just wanted, Director 
Hillis, if you have a sense of timeline. I mean, I know the City has a lot to worry about 
besides getting back to chamber meetings. So, maybe that’s just way in the future. Maybe 
just your best guess if you want to hazard one and just any conversations that staff or 
others have been having about how to keep the good that we have gained from learning 
on how to do things remotely. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes. Great question and we are all starting to think and plan for that time when, and 
hopefully sooner rather than later, when we can reoccupy the offices and have 
Commission meetings in-person. So, on the Department level, we have formed a working 
group to really look at how our policies about remote work should and will change. And so, 
we’ll definitely have to stop all the changes our policies how staff can work remotely and 
when that's appropriate and when it may not be. And then, I think, the bigger question, 
you know, similar question about Commissions and public meetings, you know, we are 
going to have to work with the City Administrators Office and the Mayor's Office to figure 
that out on a Citywide level. And I don’t know, Jonas, you may want to chime in also, but 
probably we'll take more of a lead from the Board of Supervisors. But I think we'll be at the 
table in those discussions, too, as a Department, that has obviously robust public meetings 
every week. No details yet. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I'll only add that I have requested the conversation to begin with the Commission 
Secretary's group, but it will be likely that we'll be taking the Board of Supervisors lead on 
how they continue to proceed when they resume hearings in their chambers. 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
 
Okay, great. Thank you so much, I appreciate that. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 11, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to suggest that when time is allowed, perhaps Commissioners could get a tour of 
the new office building. We saw it under construction but what is finished now is very 
different from when we saw it. [inaudible] As you are considering potentially coming back 
to City Hall, obviously the Supervisor's Chamber is far more spacious than what we have in 
Planning Commission because we sit in a U, which is not allowing us any social distancing 
other than keeping our elbows from knocking into each other. And there may be 
considerations for using other rooms and giving us the ability to meet. Even meeting in the 
Light Court, where there is plenty of room for the public to also interact with us. Thank 
you.