5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• 2022 Hearing Schedule 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:   
Adopted as proposed with the following amendments: 
Cancel March 17th; 
Reinstate March 31st;  
Cancel May 5th; 
Reinstate June 30th; 
Cancel July 7th; and 
Cancel October 27th. 
AYES: 
 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
We've been reading a lot in the paper about issues surrounding the parklets and additional 
proposed legislation that the Mayor has come out with, and I wonder Director Hillis, if you 
could summarize for us where the parklet issue stands and the role that the Planning 
Department is playing in this discussion? 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 9, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 11 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:  
Sure. And I was going to mention this during my comment, but happy to talk about it now. 
And you're correct. There's been some recent media coverage about it. As you all know, that 
was a program that was implemented quickly but I think successfully in response to the 
Covid shut down that kept many of our businesses up and running and commercial corridors 
active and vibrant over the past 18 months. And one, I just wanted to recognize the 
incredible work that our team, led by Robin Abad did, as well as representatives from other 
agencies. But, as we shift now into a more permanent phase of the program, the legislation 
you recommended and that the Board approved requires spaces to meet minimum 
requirements, especially around fire, life safety, and disability access. And we recognize that 
there are some issues with operators complying and needing to modify their spaces but our 
goal is to make that process transparent and easy on small business owners. So, the 
legislation you originally recommended and the Board adopted extended a grace period for 
compliance from December 31st of this year to July 1st, 2022 of next year. Mayor Breed this 
morning announced that she is introducing legislation to extend the temporary program. 
So in essence extending that grace period to January 1, 2023. And further, she directed that 
citations and any related fines be suspended for the time being and that compliance will 
proceed for those with the most significant life safety issues. So this gives us, I think, it’s good 
news, it gives us more time for outreach, education to engage with operators especially 
those that have more severe issues that need to be recognized. We absolutely recognized 
the importance of the program and keeping businesses open so we will work with the 
Mayor’s office and other agencies to ensure its continued success. And that small business 
owners understand and are able to meet the guidelines. So that is where things stand today. 
I just wanted to remind to anybody who is listening that that Equity Grant program which 
can provide some financial assistance to meet some of these goals, applications are 
available. They are online on the Shared Spaces website and those applications will be 
accepted until February 28th. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
 
Thanks for that clarification. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:  
 
Yup.