2. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
 Draft Minutes for May 6, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
3. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Good afternoon, everyone. I just wanted to say-- thank the staff, particularly Liz Watty who 
helped arrange for a tour for myself and Commissioner Imperial of the new Planning 
Department. The new Permit Center, which is now getting ready -- already has 
appointments and some walk-ins. And it was just great to be with other people, to see the 
wonderful facility. To see the great new locations that our staff have to work at. I think 
there's not a bad seat on any of the three floors that Planning is located. It's great to see us 
integrate with the other departments as well on some of the floors. So, I know many staff 
have not been even to their new offices yet, and their plans are underway for what staffing 
and schedules and all that will look like. But it really is just a tremendous City facility. And if 
you haven't had a chance to take a tour, it's just really, it’s quite amazing and it just felt 
really great. So, again thank you to staff for making that possible. And I look forward – 
hopefully it's a great place for community meetings; it’s just a really dynamic facility. So I'm 
just really excited to see how we're able to use that. That’s all. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
And I just would like to reiterate what Commissioner Tanner has mentioned. Thank you, 
Ms. Watty for giving us the tour. And I really appreciate also meeting the staff in person-- 
some of the staff in person. It's really nice to see them, and I hope -- I wish to see them in 
person in the future too. And in terms of the Permit Service Center, I think there is a better 
queuing system now. And it's really great, I think, that people are not being waited, and 
there's a better way in terms of handling the applications. And the -- I hope the staff get to 
see the new -- the new building is really pretty. In a way that I think – thankful for the staff 
in a way of the service that you provide to the city.  And I think we really need to take care 
of our staff, as well. In terms of other different agencies being in that building, I think it will 
be great to have faster communication. I think it's great that everything is in house in that 

San Francisco Planning Commission