3. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 22, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to comment on a memo we received from Ms. Pantoja in the response to our 
request for further clarification on the landscape plan for 0 Guttenberg Street. While I 
appreciate that indeed modifications to the plant material was made, and I really 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 6, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 12 
 
appreciate the department reviewing this material, I am still not satisfied with the 
response to our request to really consider not using artificial turf. I believe that the answer 
to that was given to us as insufficient and does not really get to the matter of what is 
important to this Commission. I would like to hear other Commissioners to comment on it. 
I also did not necessarily appreciate the tone of not having any alternatives being 
presented because there are ample alternatives for providing a people friendly appropriate 
surfacing of this small garden area. I would be curious to hear what other Commissioners 
have to say.  
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. I too also agree with Commissioner Moore on the 0 
Guttenberg. I feel like it needs to go back to the drawing board in terms of the 
landscaping. I do think that perhaps a gravel will be -- a different kind of material would be 
more sufficient. But I do think it has to come back again for the Planning Commission to - - 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners I apologize. I am going to interrupt the conversation. Only because 0 
Guttenberg is not on today’s agenda for discussion purposes. I mean, certainly 
Commissioner Moore can make her comments. But once we start discussing items that are 
not on today’s agenda, I am sorry I will have to prevent that from going any further. If you 
would like to have a discussion, we should schedule it at a future hearing. And we can 
certainly put it on next week's hearing for your discussion. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Okay. I would ask then as your maker of the request that this be put on next week's 
discussion item. And we can revisit this together.  
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
So noted. Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
 
I was going to support the request made by Commissioner Moore. 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I just wanted to comment on the other memo that we received more recently. I think it 
may have been today or yesterday about the Equity Council. And I just wanted to 
congratulate all the folks who are volunteering and giving their time to the Equity Council. 
I know it is continuing to develop. And so, I am very just happy to see a group of folks who 
will be helping the Department to continue to work on advancing our equity resolution. I 
don’t know Director, if there is any update that you would be able to provide – if we may 
have some interaction with that Council, or how staff maybe engaging with that Council.  
If you are aware and could shed a little light on that? 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. And I was going to bring this up during my report to make sure you saw that memo 
you pointed out. As you saw from the memo, and the goal is to advise us, primally staff, on 
our policies and how we elevate voices. Particularly Black Americans and other 
communities of color in our process. We will inform you of these meetings. Certainly we 
can't have a quorum of Commissioners at them but would welcome involvement. Certainly 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 6, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
we will come back here and report back to you on the discussions we have been having. 
We are hoping to meet monthly with the Council, maybe early on even adding an 
additional meeting. We will definitely report back. We will also let you know when those 
meetings are happening and the topics. 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I only want to briefly ask what time of the day was it sent yesterday? Because I, particularly 
before meetings, very carefully check my e-mail and I don't think I got it. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I think it was sent out last week. But if you didn't get it, let us know and -  
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
If you wouldn't mind, I would appreciate it. Because I am normally pretty thorough but I 
did not see it. May be my fault. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Okay.