4.
Land Acknowledgement 
President Tanner:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
5.
2023 Hearing Schedule
SPEAKERS: 
None
ACTION: 
Adopted as amended: exchanging the fifth Thursday in June with June 
22nd in recognition of Juneteenth; adding July 6th in recognition of Fourth 
of July; adding August 24th and 31st to the Summer Hiatus; and adding 
October 12th in recognition of Indigenous People’s Day. 
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Ruiz 
6.
Commission Comments/Questions
President Tanner:
Commissioners, last week we had kind of um, I think it was an unfortunate and somewhat 
embarrassing incident for all of us where we had a couple of public commenters who
didn’t have interpretation handy and fortunately one person was able to - the project
sponsor, to have, interpretation but not for the other commenters. And I know that was a 
bit awkward and we were hoping that by their tone they were supportive, but we really
quite frankly didn’t know. And I think you may have seen the communication with Ms.
Hestor about that communication. So, I did talk with the Secretary about what could have
been done to prevent that in the future and they have talked about some improvements
to process. I don't know if you want to share that, Jonas, of what you have talked about 
and what happened.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Yes. Absolutely. I agree it was unfortunate, but we are taking it as an opportunity, as a 
learning experience and to improve our practices.  So since then, I’ve directed staff to be a 
little bit more forward in advising sponsors of the service that we provide at no cost to 
members of the public. But more importantly, we reached out to the Board of Supervisors 
and other Commissions to see what their practice is. And I think we are going to 
implement some things that may include some stand-by service actually. So, I'm actually 
very encouraged and we just found that out today. And so, I'm very pleased to inform you 
that we may have some things, I'm not sure how much it will cost the Department, if 
anything, but it might be minimal enough where we can provide that service. Maybe not 
necessarily by live people but apparently there is some sort of a program that may be or 
would be implemented. So, we’re, I think this unfortunate occurrence will provide us with 
benefit moving forward. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Great. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to remind us also, as you were asking the people who were affected by last 
week to go over to the other side, they did not understand you. That at least in the 
moment we find a way to acknowledge that we cannot speak or respond even if we try. 
Because I think they were really lost at sea. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Yes. I mean, we are sort of forced to be a little reactionary in the past. If the public doesn’t 
notify us that they are in need of interpretation, we don't generally schedule it because 
again, it is a cost, added cost to the Department.  But I think like, as I mentioned I think we 
might have something that will help us move in the future 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Great and thank you.  Just keep us abreast of that as that goes under way.   
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
We were copied on a letter by HCD on the matter of 469 Stevenson and while I'm 
supportive of them obviously looking over our shoulders this particular letter struck me as 
somewhat inappropriate as it was insinuating to tell us what to do. We are not State 
employees, we are not City employees, we are volunteering as Commissioners and for that 
reason I felt that a state agency even raising an implicit threat was not particularly well 
sitting with me. I want to just put that to record and the letter that was received is part of 
public record for anybody who wants to read it. Thank you. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Good afternoon, everybody. I just wanted to ask that we adjourn today's hearing in 
recognition of fallen labor leader, Mike Hardeman, on behalf of San Francisco Labor 
Council and the San Francisco Building and Construction Trades Council. I just wanted to 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
acknowledge his recent passing as he served on San Francisco’s Fire Commission and Port 
Commission as well as being a journeyman and business manager of sign and display local 
510. So, if we could it would appease the Commission, we could adjourn in his memory 
today? Thank you. 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Sorry about that. Thank you, Commissioner Koppel.