1. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for August 25, 2022 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 29, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 2 of 12 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Speaker – 45 Bernard motion, due process not provided, roof deck 
Lindsay Huston – 45 Bernard, ex-parte communication, was not afforded 
due process 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner, Moore 
 
• Draft Minutes for September 8, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner, Moore 
 
• Draft Minutes for September 15, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Ozzie Rohm – Comments are not reflected adequately in minutes. 
 
 
Anastasia Yovanopoulos – Minutes - Capture what was said for the record 
ACTION:  
Continued to October 6, 2022 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner, Moore 
 
2. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I would like to first welcome a full Commission again. Indeed, some of us have never met 
before but simultaneously I would like to welcome our new Commissioners, Commissioner 
Tanner and Commissioner Braun. It is great to be back here and it’s almost being in a new 
room and a new experience. We’re trying to make the best out of it. But before we get into 
Commission Comments, and I call on my other fellow Commissioners, please join me in the 
land acknowledgment that we read into the record every week. 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I just want to say I'm glad to be back here. It’s good to see everyone in person. Definitely 
missed being here with you all so just very very excited to be back and have a really great 
robust agenda today of matters to take up. One item that did come up during the hearing 
process at the Rules Committee was the discussion of the role between the Commission 
Secretary and the Commissioners. And I just wanted to, for the record, state that Mr. Ionin 
and I did talk a little bit about that role and so, Supervisor Peskin had asked for that. So, we 
have had a conversation and I think it was really helpful for both of us. Just want to 
commend Mr. Ionin for his really great work and service to the Commission and I think this 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 29, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 12 
 
has been just wonderful to have you shepherd us through a very, very, very challenging 
and uncharted territory. And I know that you continue to serve us admirably and I want to 
thank you for your service to the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Secretary lonin, I had a conversation and came onto a very good understanding that 
ultimately the subtlety of words matters and while we may have some ambiguity in our 
past motion making, we will pay attention that we all agree on every word that is being 
used in order to avoid confusion. We come with very different backgrounds, use language 
quite differently and that is for in a motion which is basic as semi-legal statement about a 
conclusion of this body, we need to be as precise as possible. And sometimes it involves 
using the advice from the City Attorney and specific expressions to avoid or to insert. All 
we need to pay attention to particular professional acronyms and words like architectural 
terms that are important to be properly used in our motions. We will try our best and I 
think we have a good understanding to cooperatively work together to bring that forward 
and avoid lengthy conversations which prolong, unnecessary prolong our meetings. I'm 
sure you would agree with what I said, Secretary Ionin. I’d like to ask that we please 
schedule for next week’s meeting the Election of Officers. We need to elect a President. 
And I'm not sure that includes reaffirming the role of the Vice President but we need to 
elect a new President. So, if you could schedule that perhaps for next week Secretary lonin, 
that would be appreciated. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Is there a consensus from the Commission? Okay, seeing no opposition, I will schedule the 
Election of Officers for next week's hearing. 
 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I just wanted to explain the use of the head set in case any of you were wondering.  I'm not 
listening to music on this side. I'm hearing impaired and I wear hearing aids and find the 
closed captioning to be delayed and not very useful and I want to make sure that I am 
hearing everything that everybody has to say. I found that on Zoom, the quality of the 
sound was so much better. And I'm working with the tech department and Mr. Ionin to try 
to come up with a solution in the hearing chambers that allows me to hear every word. So, 
we are trying a head set clipped into a loudspeaker that allows the mics to be fed directly 
into my ears. And so far, it is a big improvement. I just wanted to provide you all with that 
explanation. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you. Commissioner Diamond. If there are no other Commissioner comments, there 
is one more housekeeping item I wanted to address the Commission on. The Castro 
Theatre was scheduled to come before you next week. We’ve received a request to 
continue that item into December. And after conversations internally, we thought it might 
be prudent for us to sort of consolidate our resources and allow the public to make a single 
comment on one day. And so, what I'm asking is, would you be available for a joint hearing 
with the Historic Preservation Commission at 10 a.m. on December 8th? I polled the 
Historic Preservation Commissioners. We are able to assemble a quorum. They will actually 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 29, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
have back-to-back hearings on their regular day on Wednesday and then join us here on 
Thursday morning, December 8th at 10 a.m. We do expect a very, very large number of 
speakers on that matter. I think the indication through the number of e-mails we have 
been receiving associated with this project indicates strongly that a large number of 
people. So, to really prevent that members of the public to have to queue up twice in a row 
on 2 days, we thought we might see if we could accommodate them and hold a Joint 
Hearing on that matter? And then we would set a time specific for your remainder calendar 
after that. We might bleed over but at least we could do that. So, if we can get a quorum 
for 10 a.m., and if we all agree here to do that, we can get that going. And that way the 
public will know as well. 
 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
 
 
Do you want to just nod for us to nod or do you want to ask anybody individually. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Well, I just, if anyone I think it’d be easier if someone said they can't make 10 a.m. on 
Thursday, December 8th, that would be easier. If not, I will assume that you all can. Okay, 
fantastic. Thank you for that, Commissioners. 
 
3. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for 
the next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] 
at a commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Austin Yang – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner, Moore 
RESOLUTION: 
21174