7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 21, 2022 
• Draft Minutes for July 28, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Fung, Tanner 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I’d like to first, welcome everybody back after a long hiatus. Myself, not having been at City 
Hall for the last two years, I’m delighted to see familiar faces and meeting some of my own 
Commissioners for the first time. And that’s a record. That never happened before. 
 
I’d like to start with our land acknowledgement. Please join me. 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of 
the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As 
the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush 
Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the caretakers of this 
place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As guests, we 
recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish 
to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and Relatives of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as First Peoples. 
 
Commissioner inquiries and comments. I’d like to start by acknowledging the HPC 
dedicating a memorial plaque at the Comstock Cafeteria in the Tenderloin. A remarkable 
piece that took many many years to formulate and come through. And it so well layers to 
what we will be hearing later about a new piece of legislation for the Neon District in the 
Tenderloin. 
  
I would also like to, before I forget, I actually should have said that first - I would like to say 
a heartful thank you to Commissioner Fung who will not be joining us on this Commission 
any longer. His service has been remarkable, not only the experience he has brought to this 
position having served on multiple Commissions including this one for decades, but his 
general spirit of being here and a strong steward for us as “Juniors”, actually I have to include 
myself on that, have greatly added to this being a really good Commission and I want to 
thank him. I regret that he is not here today that we could shake hands in the traditional 
way as we do these days. And he will be missed. Thank you, Commissioner Fung. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I’d like to add some comments. First, with, in terms of Commissioner Fung, I will miss him 
and hope I got to say farewell to him as well. I also want to acknowledge and in terms of the 
interns’ presentation that happened this week. Unfortunately I wasn’t able to see the 
presentations but I’m wondering if the staff can send the Commissioners the recordings of 
the presentations so we can watch them later.  
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Yeah, I also attended at least one day of the presentations and really appreciated how the 
interns worked with the leaders and staff and really used a lot of good examples, with a lot 
of really good pictures, just putting in a really good context and made it very enjoyable.    
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I’d like to echo the appreciation for the Summer Intern Program and the tremendous 
amount of work that the Department is putting into it. I have observed it now for a number 
of years. And if Secretary Ionin would be able to help us with that, for us to see the 
presentations, would indeed be very inspirational for us. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Certainly. I’m fairly certain they will be posted on our webpage shortly if they’re not already 
there. 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
 
If you could alarm us, that would help. Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond : 
Thank you. I just wanted to add that I too will miss Commissioner Fung and I want to second 
the comments that made about him so far. I really appreciated his wise counsel, his 
deliberative manner and the experience that he brought to our deliberations for multiple 
tours of duty in the Commission and Board of Appeals.  
 
9. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for the 
next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] at a 
commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Fung, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21161