10. 
Election of Officers 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Yes, I would like to nominate Commissioner Tanner as President and Commissioner Moore 
as Vice President thru January of 2023 to pick up where we left off. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 6, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Second. 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I just want to thank Commissioner Diamond for the nomination and Commissioner Moore 
for the second. And I’ll be happy to serve as President for the remainder of the year. Thank 
you. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I’d be delighted to continue serving together and we’ll make the best out of it. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
President – Tanner, Vice President - Moore 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner, Moore 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you very much, Commissioners. I appreciate that and we’ll do our land 
acknowledgment now, Jonas, if that’s okay before the minutes just while I have the 
microphone here. I want to thank you all for continuing this practice that hopefully can 
serve as a reminder for all of us. We heard last week from the member of the Equity Council 
the importance of the acknowledgment, not just as words, but really as a way to start in 
our proceedings and to be thoughtful about where we are stewarding the City and the 
resources that we have. 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
11. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for September 15, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted as amended 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
12. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Thank you. I have a question for Director Hillis. I have been reading with some interest in 
local publications about the Downtown Recovery Plan. And in my conversations with staff 
last week about the Housing Element there were a number of references to the work that 
is going on in Planning Department and at OEWD about the recovery plan. And I am 
wondering if we could get a presentation at the Commission on, not only the work by the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 6, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
Planning Department but also OEWD. And I would be particularly interested in having that 
hearing happen before we get too far along in the hearings for the Housing Element 
because I feel like  they are integrally related. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. And I have already made the request to OEWD. They are leading the effort. We, 
obviously, got a fairly large role in that looking at how we are all returning to work and 
what that means from a land use standpoint with offices downtown and is there 
conversion potential to residential or other uses. So, that is in the works and we will 
schedule that hopefully in the next month. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Great. Thank you. 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Very mundane comment. I get repeated requests that we all speak very clearly and slowly 
into the microphone. Any of us turning like this can't be heard. That holds also for people 
calling in particularly last week there were at least 4 or 5 people calling in. They were 
either, too close to their microphone, they were literally inaudible. Can we all make an 
effort to be properly heard. Thank you.