6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for June 9, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Moore 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 23, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you. Commissioners, I will begin with our land acknowledgement today. 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of 
the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As 
the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush 
Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the caretakers of this 
place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As guests, we 
recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish 
to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and Relatives of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as First Peoples. 
 
Thank you for joining me in that acknowledgment and very excited the Warriors won, and 
hopefully you all got to go to the parade on Monday which was very hot but very fun, and it 
was really great to be out there. So, thank you for bringing home that trophy Warriors, and 
thanks to all the staff who helped clean up after the parade throughout the City. We 
appreciate you picking up of all those tons of trash and confetti from the streets. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you and yes, congratulations to the Warriors. We've been getting emails in terms of 
the 228 Vicksburg around the motion or the Minutes and the language around the motion. 
And looking back in the motion that was taken in April 21st, it was taken accurately. The 
motion was to, deed restrict up to, at 80% AMI in reference to the Planning Codes or the 
General Government Code 66300. There were emails that were saying that I believe my 
understanding is to refer it to the Planning Director Bulletin number 7. Planning Bulletin 
number 7 is in reference to the Government Code 66300. The motion that I did was in a way 
already covered in the Government Code 66300 and just placing it out only amplified that. 
So, the Minutes that were taken April 21st were taken accurately and that means there was 
nothing wrong with the Minutes. So I just want to clarify that because we were getting other 
emails from Supervisor Myrna Melgar's legislative aide and all of the motions or the 
language in it is already covered. So it doesn’t need to be referenced to Planning Director 
Bulletin number 7. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Imperial and I hope that we can make sure those communications 
get back to the email recipients as well and to the Supervisor's office because I think it was 
a little confusing. So, thank you for really reading the Minutes and following up on that. I 
don't know if Ms. Watty or Mr. Hillis have anything you want to add to that comment. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I think that's perfectly accurate. I mean, all our authority to do what we did all emanates 
from that state law. The Director’s Bulletin is actually kind of just our, boiling down what 
state law says and explaining it. So, that's exactly correct, thank you. 
 
President Tanner: 
Great thank you. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 23, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I would just say too, I mean substantively I think there's no disagreement. Like we're all in 
the same place. It was more what the motion says. 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
The language was being questioned which I think was taken accurately. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Thank you. I wanted to give a shout out to the article in today's Chronicle’s Bay Area section 
by John King. I’m pulling it up here but I don't know if that comes through on the camera 
entitled Private Locations Worthy of Ovations. It's a wonderful article highlighting 11 of the 
POPOS which was a reminder to me that POPOS really are incredible and we should take just 
a moment to thank prior Planning Department staff and Commission and the board for their 
collaboration and coming up with the concept of POPOS because seeing them fully realized 
is such an incredibly important contribution to the public realm. And I hope everybody takes 
advantage of this article as an opportunity to go visit some of the POPOS which some are a 
little hard to find and the article gives great directions on how to get there. Along the same 
lines Director Hillis, a few weeks ago we had asked whether or not all of the building owners 
were aware that their POPOS needed to be open and I wonder what the follow-up from that 
was. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes. So we, I think your requested or the Commissioners here identifying this is an issue. 
We’ve sent out a notice to all POPO’s owners that the spaces should be open if their building 
is open. And you know, it's our understanding that all buildings or most buildings are open. 
So, yes. I don't know if we've received a response but those notices have gone out. And I 
agree with your sentiments about the value of these spaces. 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Great. Thank you.