6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for July 14, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Fung 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you. Commissioners, I will begin with our land acknowledgement. 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of 
the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As 
the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush 
Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the caretakers of this 
place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As guests, we 
recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 15 
 
to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and Relatives of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as First Peoples. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you. I have three items. They are questions and answers to these questions may not 
be nearly available, perhaps we could bring them back if there are no answers. The first thing 
is, reading an article and not only in one but in several papers about somebody filing fake 
planning applications with the Planning Department. Reading the article, I was very 
concerned, not only is it really an abuse of the trust, it is being put into being able to 
electronically file applications, but also, it's an incredible impediment to a department 
which is already stretched with very busy work. I would like the Department, somebody in 
the Department to update the Commission, one on the fact of what happened to those 
Commissioners who have not known or read about this and also give us some idea of how 
you could be protected against any future incidents like this. The second item which came 
to my attention and really concerned me is a new condo building at 55 Oak that is sitting 
empty for a few months because the developer who completed this building as a 
condominium building, took down payments and has people waiting now for eight months 
or more, has all of a sudden figured out he cannot deliver this building. I do not know much 
of the background but it is very concerning that 109 dwelling units are basically finished and 
cannot be moved in. And I don't want to comment on the inconvenience it may cause 
somebody who thought had bought a condo or anything else what comes with this kind of 
unusual arrangement.  I have never heard about anything quite like it and would love the 
Department to give an update on that matter.  And last but not least, there's another issue 
which when I first read about an invitation for groundbreaking, I was very excited about it. 
However, then I ran across an article in a magazine speaking about the construction of one 
of our prominent second hub district tower buildings and that is 30 Van Ness, exactly 
opposite the side from, opposite the street from One Oak which we approved a few weeks 
ago. This particular building is a -- was approved I think at the end of 2017 as well as a 600-
unit rental building with 151 cars to the .25 desired amount of parking for this location. This 
building now is breaking ground for 300 condos and I assume it's still 151 cars and I would 
like to know, and I may have missed it, as to whether or not this project in its new 
configuration came back to this Commission for change of the terms of approval. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. I don't know Ms. Watty if you have some responses or if 
you will need time to look into those items. 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure. I can give a couple of quick responses and a couple of things we'll need to follow up 
with you. For the first item on the fake applications, that did hit the Business Times. It is 
something we're looking into in order to both assess how this happened and how we can 
prevent it moving forward. Dan Sider is in our Office Chief of Staff who is taking the lead on 
that and he's happy to follow up offline with all of the Commissioners to give a little bit 
greater detail, but we're in the midst of working with IT staff to really dig into that issue. So 
obviously we want to have the public portal that makes it easy for real applicants to file their 
applications in an easy way so we don't want to make it overly burdensome but this is, we 
have come to realize a bit of, one of the problems with that. So, we're looking into some 
creative solutions around that to prevent that from happening in the future. In terms of 55 
Oak, you know, we don't have a great response, obviously at this point. There's a point where 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 15 
 
it transitions from the City's responsibility to the property owner so we absolutely hear you. 
We're equally frustrated with the building that is ready to be occupied not being occupied. 
We're happy to dig in on the back end just to make sure there aren't any other City agencies 
that are holding up subsequent permits, but from the Planning Departments perspective at 
least, all the permits have been years ago signed off at this point and issued. But we'll let 
you know if we do identify that there's any aspect of City permitting that's holding that one 
up. And then lastly on 30 Van Ness, I will also have to follow up with you but I do believe 
there were revisions over the years on this project but I do believe the Commission was 
made abreast of those revisions. But again, happy to follow up. 
 
President Tanner: 
Great, thank you. Commissioner Moore, I think we'll have staff follow up because I think 
those are very good questions and topics that you raised.  
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for the 
next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] at a 
commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Fung 
RESOLUTION: 
21151