1. 
Land Acknowledgement 
 
 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
2. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
 
• Draft Minutes for December 1, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
3. 
2023 Hearing Schedule 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted as amended reinstating March 30th and cancelling April 6th in 
recognition of Passover. 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I only will say today is our last hearing of 2022 if we can believe that it is already time to 
start 2023. I just want to thank all the staff who helped make these Commission hearings 
happen and go smoothly. The public that comes in and the staff that don’t always see but I 
know who are working hard at the Department and contributing to the projects that we 
see. And we got to have a holiday party last week, it was great to see some staff in person 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 11 
 
and even to note some folks hadn't met in person yet as we hired new staff during the 
pandemic who came on and started their jobs remotely. And so, to the staff who helped to 
make that event happen, it’s not just something fun to do, it really is an important part of 
making our department, a community of planners, to feel that they can do their work and 
know each other and have a good collegial atmosphere and environment. So, on behalf of 
the Commission I thank all the staff for the work and for the hosts you put together last 
week's event. And thank my fellow Commissioners for this last year. It’s been another 
interesting one. I think it certainly more exciting than 2020 in terms of the number of 
projects, but looking forward to hopefully some more robust sessions and Commission 
hearings in the future. So, thank you all for being such good colleagues. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I just wanted to point out several events that have been happening in San Francisco in the 
last couple of weeks that have been really amazing. Not put on by the Planning 
Department but really celebrate the wonders of our city. In particular, I want to call out 
Glow SF. I don’t know if any of you had the opportunity to see the light show that was put 
on multiple buildings downtown, particularly the one on the Pacific Stock Exchange 
building. Absolutely spectacular and incredible opportunity to come downtown and see 
the best of our city, hopefully stay and dine. And the other is the programming that is 
being put on on JFK Drive in the park. It is not just a closed street. There is spectacular 
sculpture with the doggy diners road work murals, all the Adirondack chairs, musicians, 
pianos, ping-pong. It is not just the space but it’s the programming of the space so an 
incredible shout out to Park and Rec for making us appreciate our assets in ways that we 
might not have been able to previously. So, just two examples but it’s just fantastic to be 
able to celebrate so many absolutely wonderful features of our city. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Here here to that. Those are spectacular. I did get to see the light show and JFK and 
nodding enthusiastically. Really fantastic. Very very fantastic stuff. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I appreciate the upbeat notice of Commissioner Diamond and President Tanner's saying 
goodbye to the year. On a slightly more somber note, I’m now sure if any of you watched 
last Tuesday’s hearing on the Board of Supervisors where there was an extremely long line 
of people speaking to the eviction of tenants in the Oasis motel on Franklin Street. 56 
women and children will be evicted in the next few days because the owner wants to take 
full control of the hotel again and basically rid himself of people who in the crisis of Covid 
have been moved into this particular hotel. It was bringing anybody who listened carefully 
to tears hearing the individual stories and hardship that people who not only are losing 
their home but a few days earlier had lost their employment partially at the Twitter 
building. Inaudible: without any means or any direction of where to go. The board 
unanimously expressed strong support and a very open Inaudible:  to what was being said. 
I hope that there will be a solution to it and if anybody wants to listen to what proceeded, 
you may want to do that. It was indeed a very moving story and I want to acknowledge 
that I walked by there yesterday to get a better understanding of the building and the 
location and its need to support our disadvantaged community. Thank you. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 11 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore for bringing that item for attention. It is certainly is one 
we hope can have resolution for all those involved.