7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 3, 2022 
• Draft Minutes for February 10, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I'd like to kick off this session. First, Happy Lunar New Year. It was great to see folks at the 
parade this last week and other celebrations. So, just a really great time to be with 
community and just wishing you all end of Black History Month today. So, thanks for 
indulging me as we have been celebrating throughout the month and hopefully continuing 
really throughout the year so thank you for that. And I just also wanted to take a moment to 
express some of my thoughts as we have been getting notice about reopening City Hall and 
reoccupying City Hall for our Commission hearings. I, personally, am so excited for when we 
do get to come back in person as the Commissioner who joined you all during the pandemic 
and have not gotten to be with you all altogether as a group. So, I really am looking forward 
to that day. At this time, I do have some concerns about coming back in physically to City 
Hall and being together at this moment. But, I do hope that maybe in the next month or so 
can get to a point where some of the concerns can both be addressed but also, we can see 
that the reopening that's happening for the Board of Supervisors, other Commissions, and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
other aspects. Just generally of life is hopefully going smoothly, continuing to have cases go 
down and that some of the factors in my personal life that are making me hesitant to come 
back may also change and just give me a little bit more confidence that myself and those 
who I'm caring with and living with will not contract Covid due to me going to the hearings 
in person. But I just wanted to share that with you all that's kind of where I am and ultimately 
sharing to members of the public who may be wondering - when are we coming back, what 
are the hearings going to be like. And so I just want to make an opportunity for those who 
want to share to also share. I know Commissioner Diamond, you're on the phone. I'm not 
sure if you able raised your hand or not but I did want to throw it to Commissioner Diamond 
because I know she's got to leave in a bit. If she'd like to share anything about what she's 
thinking on this matter or other Commissioner comments that she might have. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Thank you, Commissioner Tanner. I really appreciate that. I too am very eager to be back 
especially if the numbers in our community continue to decline the way they have recently. 
But, I am also concerned about coming back at this point in time, and I believe the staff has 
done truly a remarkable job in allowing these remote hearings to function pretty well. It is 
not as great as we were in person, but under the circumstances, I think the remote hearings 
are working extremely well. Relative to the risk, especially for those of us who are in 
vulnerable populations or close to or are responsible for taking care of people who are in 
vulnerable populations or just for those of us who have different risk assessments, which is 
one thing I have learned during the last 2 years is that each of us judges these circumstances 
quite differently. And I believe that in the [inaudible] circumstances of the Planning 
Commission, there are some concerns that I currently have. One, is that we meet in a room 
which, even in the best of times, has very poor ventilation and certainly has no ability to 
have the windows be opened. We can meet for 8 to 10 hours at a time, where although the 
public may, each individual of the public, may not be sitting there the entire time, we the 
Commissioners certainly are, as are the members of staff. And we don't know the number of 
participants from the public who will be there. It could be a handful of people but it could 
be dozens and dozens, maybe up to 100 or more at any particular point in time. We sit very 
close together and I am quite concerned that under current protocols, there still is an issue 
out there. And, I guess, I would like to see us exploring some additional mitigating factors 
that might make some of us feel more comfortable about returning. Do we have to meet in 
our current room or is it possible to meet in a room where the ventilation is better? While 
Commissioners and staff need to be fully vaccinated, the public does not and I'm wondering 
whether or not we are permitted to have the vaccination requirements for those members 
of the public who wish to attend in person as opposed to remotely during this interim 
period. Can we hand out N95 or KN95 masks to the public because at the moment the 
protocols would simply have people wearing cloth masks if that's what they choose. Should 
we be having capacity limitations in our room together with social distancing? So, I'm 
hoping that over the next few weeks there can be more conversation about some of these 
factors. But in the meantime, at least at this point, I am in a vulnerable population and don't 
feel comfortable returning quite yet. So, thank you. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Commissioner Diamond, I think you really pointed good points in terms of what our 
measurements in order to return. Initially, I was actually excited to come back but after 
thinking about-- thinking it through in terms of access to the Commission by the public and 
also in terms of the Planning staff as well and also the health risk within our group as well. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
And not just for our group, but also with everyone who is going to be involved in here. I 
think we need to have measurements to count on in order for us to have an in-person 
meeting. I do not think right now that we have those measurements set in yet. So I am 
comfortable right now and I think the staff, all of the staff, are doing the best they can and 
also all of us too it in very pressured moments. It's hard to do these indoor remote hearings, 
to do the hearings remotely and being at home. However, there is a bigger risk, there are 
bigger risks too as being played. And it's not just ourselves, but also other people involved. 
So, that's actually the basis of my decision to also still do the remote hearings because it's 
more than just [inaudible] it is also all of us that are going to be involved that is also at risk 
and we need to have protocols and measurements set in place in order for us to decide that. 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I've given this a lot of thought and while I like bold moves, it is a bold move to in a time when 
there is uncertainty, I have decided to weigh on the side of caution. There are a number of 
reasons, many of them were already touched upon and I just want to leave it with that. I will 
return as soon as possible, and I will continue to dedicate my time and attention to the 
responsibility of being on the Commission as I have done in the past two years even as 
virtual and that includes all who have done that. And, I have found the meetings intense 
and well-attended and thoughtfully conducted so I [inaudible] to everybody who made 
virtual very well. Thanks. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
I as well wanted to just echo all the comments of the previous speakers. Not only do you see 
us here virtually on the computers but what you don't see is our immediate friends, family 
and to some of whom are in close contact with that maybe first responders, nurses. And my 
father is in an elderly vulnerable population, and I see him sometimes on a daily basis and I 
would never forgive myself if for whatever reason I, who am fully vaccinated even, was able 
to get him, who is fully vaccinated, ill for the sake of doing things prematurely when these 
hearings are being run so successfully. Thanks to all the hard work and effort with the 
Department and the staff, Jonas and the technology department. So, we do all want to come 
back as soon as we all feel safe for not just for us, but for members of the public and we 
should do this at the right time. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I just want to thank you all for sharing all your comments. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, if there 
are any additional updates regarding returning that you had wanted to update us on that 
we should be aware of in addition to the communications I think we had last week or two 
weeks ago. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Yes, since we are on the topic, I am happy to notify you that the Mayor's Office and the liaison 
to the Commissions has been in contact with us, as well as, the City Administrator's Office 
on the improvements that have been made in City Hall related to returning to in-person 
hearings. We actually met yesterday and were provided a briefing, and I am scheduled to 
come to City Hall Room 400 on March 1st, on Tuesday, in anticipation of returning to in-
person hearings to get trained on the new equipment. I personally am curious about the 
HVAC system and the promise that it has been upgraded. But, for now, that's the only update 
I have. I appreciate all of your concerns and I share many of them. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Thank you. And the Board will begin meeting in March as well in person. Is that correct? 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
You know, I actually, to be honest with you I don't believe the Mayor's mandate impacts the 
Board. And so, I'm not -- I don't have any indication, I've asked whether or not the Board 
would be opening up their chambers to members of the public. They have been meeting in 
person, but it's been restricted to only Supervisors and staff. And as you all know we are all 
required to be vaccinated. So, there's a much smaller risk related there. Their chambers 
actually provide appropriate distancing and has very good ventilation. So, I don't know what 
the timeline is for the Board of Supervisors to open their chambers to members of the public. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Okay. Well, and I think just a reminder to us, I think we have some deadlines to communicate 
back to you and then I think to communicate our vaccination status that has to update that 
to DHR I believe. So, just reminder Commissioners to take care of that -- 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
You all have, actually. Yes, all of the Commissioners have reported their vaccination status. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Perfect. Well done everybody. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Very good. Hearing that from all of you, we will agendize adoption of a resolution at your 
March 3rd hearing to continue remote hearings.