Commissioner Diamond: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
4.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for October 13, 2022
•
Draft Minutes for October 20, 2022
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Moore 
5.
Commission Comments/Questions
Commission Imperial:
As you know, I am joining you guys remotely because I have been infected by Covid. And
so, because of that I would like to request from the Commissioners and also staff and also
the public in City Hall to please speak closely to the mic so I can fully hear the conversation
going in the City Hall right now. So, that is my request. And also, I just would like to
inquire, I got an inquiry during the weekend about the Office Allocation information and
whether the Planning Department are planning to give us an update on the Office
Allocation. And, whether to give us the link on that  update to be also presented for the
next calendar or for the next Planning Commission hearing.
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:
Commissioner Imperial, yes that will be on your agenda for November 10th as well as a
memo from staff.
Commission Imperial:
Okay. Thank you very much.
President Tanner:
I wish you a speedy recovery and we will do our best to make sure you can hear us. If you
can’t, please let us know so we can speak more clearly or closer to the microphone. So,
thanks for joining us and hope you’re feeling better.

San Francisco Planning Commission