5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
There was a distressing article on the front page of the Chronicle today about POPOS 
remaining closed and I was wondering if Director Hillis might want to respond to that. 
There are obviously of some concern to the Commission and the Department I would 
assume. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes, happy to. And we know, I mean through the pandemic, open space has been critical to 
residents of the city and visitors and workers and that continues to be. So, our take is that if 
the buildings are open the POPOS should also be open, so we will look at that. Perhaps we 
can send a notice to all buildings that do have POPOS and let them know of the rules and if 
they do not open, we can start enforcement actions. But we will look into that because 
again our take is if the building is open the POPOS should be open as well. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I have a follow-up question on that, Director Hillis. Is there more of an active oversight in 
terms of looking into the POPOS, checking it, or it's more based on complaints? 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Like most of our enforcement work it tends to be complaint based. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 19, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 7 
 
 
Okay. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to ask Director Hillis a question regarding Transamerica permit. We understand 
there is a major change in ownership and ideas of refurbishing the building and other 
activities surrounding the site. However, none of that has come in front of us. And as we 
are speaking about POPOS at least for three or four weeks now, the entire block that is 
Montgomery, Clay turning onto Sansome are boarded off and that includes the Redwood 
Park that is one of the first POPOS in the series of San Francisco downtown parks. It's 
completely closed off. That particular park for decades has served as an open space for the 
SROs in Chinatown. Given that there is relatively a high degree of people not having open 
space, and in addition to Portsmouth Square using this particular open space for 
community relief. Can we get an update of what the plans are - why this particular park 
already closed off, and that particular project has not come in front of us? 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Right. We will look into that. I think what's already been approved is some renovations to 
the ground floor of the tower itself. I think the notion was to add some additional or to 
repurpose some of the lobby space to retail. I think that's approved but to me that 
wouldn’t necessarily necessitate closure of the park so we will look into that. There is a -- 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
[inaudible] of the block and the building, the tall building at the corner of Clay and 
Sansome. It's all completely closed off with a construction barricade. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. Right. There's an application in for the office building on the northwest corner of 
Sansome which will have to come to the Commission because I believe it's a Prop M 
allocation. But we will give you an update on the timing of all that as well as question why 
the entire block is closed, that the park is closed. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thanks.