2. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 19, 2022 
• Draft Minutes for May 26, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
3. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
Thank you, Commissioners, for that and I just want to wish everybody a happy Pride 
Month. Looking very much forward to the parade later this month and lots of events 
happening throughout the city. And I also just want to remind folks that today there's an 
open house in the Bayview about the Caltrain station. We had that informational session a 
few weeks ago to discuss the location of the train station. So, that will be, I believe at 5:30 
to 7 at the Bayview Opera House this evening. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to commend the Department, director Hillis and everybody who participated for 
a remarkable Equity in Action program that was held last Tuesday. I saw Commissioner 
Imperial's name, many of you may have been there. There were lots of people attending 
particularly Planning staff. This meeting will be recorded and I strongly, strongly 
recommend everybody to listen to this recording. There were lots of insights shared by the 
directors from Seattle and Philadelphia. Cities which similar yet different problems than 
ours, Planning staff small and large. They were remarkable, even a remarkable session and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 9, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 8 
 
I hope that there will be a follow-up because there is a lot to learn from what we hear from 
others in a similar situation. Again, thank you. 
 
 
4. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for 
the next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] 
at a commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21123