4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 27, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Question for staff or Director Hillis. I was curious about the timing of the work by the 
Department and the AIA folks on the SB 9 Architectural Standards to be included in the 
Objective Standards. And I was curious whether that group has met and what the timing 
may be and the return to the Commission. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
I don't have specifics. Ms. Watty, if you're here… 
 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure, I am happy to chime in. We actually had our initial kickoff meeting yesterday with a 
small group of the AIA to sort of identify a game plan moving forward. And our goal is to be 
able to have a larger group with the AIA and our internal staff architects by the end of the 
month, and our hope is to have a work product back before you by the end of March. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
 
Thank you very much for the update. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 10, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I just want to bring us another little fun fact for Black History Month this month and this one 
is on our architecture field. I know we have some great architects and folks who are more in 
the design realm on the Commission which I very much appreciate your contributions. That 
is not my skill set at all so thank you so much and thank you to our great design team and 
our staff as well. This comes from David Adjaye who helped to design the African-American 
history museum that is now in Washington DC. If you haven't gotten a chance to see it, next 
time you are in DC please get tickets. Make sure you have a whole day because it's a fabulous 
museum that is both challenging, it can be very emotional, but also ends on a very high, and 
ends with a lot of hope for our future. What he said is that “Buildings are deeply emotive 
structures, which form our psyche. People think they're just things they maneuver through, 
but the makeup of a person is influenced by the nature of spaces.” And I think that's certainly 
something that we bring to the Commission as we make our decisions about not just what 
goes where, but how it looks, how it affects not only the folks that are in it, but the folks who 
are going to be experiencing outside of that. So, just something to take with us today as we 
go into this hearing but also as we keep doing our great work as Commissioners.