7. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for September 29, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
8. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Thank you. I’ll begin this portion with our land acknowledgement. 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 13, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, I’d like to make a comment on, I think just in general for me, I’d like to have a, and 
I'm still thinking in terms of like, to have a joint hearing with the Historical Preservation but 
in what topic, that's something I'm trying to think about as well in terms, I would like to 
hear about the discussions, especially that there is also an upcoming, a very public 
demanded Castro Theater. But I hope in the future, we can have a joint hearing with the 
Historical Preservation Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
A joint hearing on a, not necessarily on that specific topic but a more maybe broader 
discussion. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
 
 
Not necessarily. Yes, more on a broader discussion. 
 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. That would be, I think, exciting. I don’t know if there are any comments or 
questions.  
 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
 
 
Or an interest if the Commissioners would like to focus on something. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And certainly, you've heard here and they've been hearing in more detail about the 
Citywide Surveys so that may be a topic we want to talk to them or have at a joint hearing. 
The Housing Element is also something that's been before the Preservation Commission as 
well so that's another topic we could discuss in a joint hearing. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I think the Survey is quite robust and it would be good to get an update.  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yup. 
 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I too would also like to suggest a joint meeting with Public Health Commission. I heard last 
night that the Laguna Honda decision has been extended by one year which is obviously a 
big sigh of relief for everybody but that would indeed give us more room to hear what the 
Health Commission is thinking and how they are trying to prepare for the upcoming year. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
  
 
Great. Thank you, Commissioners. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 13, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10