4.
Land Acknowledgement 
President Tanner:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
5.
2023 Hearing Schedule
SPEAKERS: 
None
ACTION: 
Adopted as amended: exchanging the fifth Thursday in June with June 
22nd in recognition of Juneteenth; adding July 6th in recognition of Fourth 
of July; adding August 24th and 31st to the Summer Hiatus; and adding 
October 12th in recognition of Indigenous People’s Day. 
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Ruiz 
6.
Commission Comments/Questions
President Tanner:
Commissioners, last week we had kind of um, I think it was an unfortunate and somewhat 
embarrassing incident for all of us where we had a couple of public commenters who
didn’t have interpretation handy and fortunately one person was able to - the project
sponsor, to have, interpretation but not for the other commenters. And I know that was a 
bit awkward and we were hoping that by their tone they were supportive, but we really
quite frankly didn’t know. And I think you may have seen the communication with Ms.
Hestor about that communication. So, I did talk with the Secretary about what could have
been done to prevent that in the future and they have talked about some improvements
to process. I don't know if you want to share that, Jonas, of what you have talked about 
and what happened.

San Francisco Planning Commission