5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 24, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you, Commissioners. I just want to welcome our new Commissioner. We are so glad 
to have you, we are so glad you were sworn in and seated today. You came just in time for a 
big item, our Housing Element which is one of the things that we do every eight years. So, it 
is not often that it is before us. Although this year, I think this is the third time that we are 
hearing it in the last 12 months. So, it’s before us a lot when its time but not very frequently. 
So, we just want to welcome you to the Commission. If you want to say a few words, we’re 
happy to just have you here and have a full complement of Commissioners. 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
 
Sure, I would like to say a couple of words. I just want to say how excited and happy I am to 
be here with all of you. Having been born and raised in San Francisco and lived in many of 
the neighborhoods across the city, never did I think I’d be able to do work like this and 
especially work alongside many of the community folks that I have had the privilege to work 
with over the past few years. And so, I just want to give a shout out to the folks in the 
Tenderloin and the Chinatown who really inspired me to have love for the Planning work. 
And so, I am really looking forward to working with all of you and to learning along the way. 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
I just wanted to join with my regards and welcome to you. It is wonderful to have you and 
having a full Commission. It is indeed a wonderful opportunity to move forward particularly 
at this time. Welcome. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 7, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
7. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action and adoption of findings 
under California government code section 54953(e) to allow remote meetings during the 
COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for the next 30 days; direct the 
Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution at a Commission meeting within 30 
days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Georgia Schuttish – Grand traditional time for public comment 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21096