6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for August 25, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Liz Watty – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Kirsten Jensen – Deputy City Attorney 
 
 
- Jerry Dratler – 27 17th Avenue, false DRA issued 
 
 
- Han Ming – 45 Bernard, suggestion of additional language 
 
 
- Ryan Patterson – 45 Bernard, missing words, continue minutes/motion 
- Sue Hestor – Proposed motion make available for public review, obtain 
ZA’s opinion 
- Ozzie Rohm – 228 Vicksburg, inaccuracies in motions 
ACTION:  
Continued to September 29, 2022 
AYES:  
Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Please join me in the Ramaytush Ohlone land acknowledgement. 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
8.  
Advance Calendar 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Looking into the advanced calendar, looks like there are some comments actually or that I 
would like to bring up but not until September 29, when we go through the Housing 
Element. Upon that discussion, we’ll have probably more information on the Housing 
Element in terms of how, and also in light of the discussion last week, as to how we can go 
deeper or have a more robust discussion in some parts of the Housing Element. I would 
wait for that informational until I can add it in our advance calendar and what we could 
look into further. Also, I would like to thank Mr. Sider for giving us the AB 2011 update on 
that. Again, this is not yet, we don’t know it will be signed or vetoed. I hope that could be 
added to in our advance calendar.  
Vice-President Kathrin Moore:  
I would like to re-state my desire to have a scheduled meeting with the Health 
Department. I was listening to the Board of Supervisors having a long, very fruitful, 
discussion about their concerns regarding Laguna Honda and this Commission shares their 
concerns; speaking again with the Health Department, which we have postponed a 
number of times over the past year, may be helpful again. Timing the joint hearing is not 
easy. I would like to suggest that, emphasis on suggest. I would also like to have a meeting 
with Historic Preservation. It came to my attention that there is a very complicated matter 
in the Stonestown Master Plan and I would very much like to hear how the Historic 
Preservation frames the issue. 
From our perspective, speaking more generically than specifically, we support housing to 
take over in positions of Stonestown where there are older obsolete peripheral buildings 
and all of a sudden it was discovered that there is a specific building in that area that may 
arise to Historic Preservation status. What is important for us is to find that middle ground 
where, perhaps, Historic Preservation can share with us our concerns about housing and 
creating housing in the right spots. I do have to admit that I was out at Stonestown the 
other day for another purpose, actually returning glass bottles to a very remote location 
and I realized with a lot of chagrin I have to say, that there was a tremendous amount of 
busses and cars parked on the curb understanding that students live in those trailers, 
buses and cars. One out of 24 students at SF State apparently do not have housing. I was, 
mildly speaking, shocked, and that made me then reflect on this particular site, not to 
render judgment but to share your concerns of how to bring a master plan forward that is 
indeed rich in housing and every opportunity to create that. That was my one comment. 
The second comment I wanted to make is: I want to thank the Department for digging 
deep and acknowledging that a comment I made last week was indeed correct and that is 
that ADUs in new construction as well as, I think, as in existing construction cannot be 
connected to the homes in which they occur. We had a case last week in DR where I  
questioned that that was correct. To make it brief, I appreciate the Department coming 
back and recognizing that it must have been a mistake in interpretation.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
Thank you. Those are my comments.  
Jonas Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I’ll just remind members of the Commission that we are on the Advance Calendar.  
Vice-President Kathrin Moore:  
I see to your falling under Commission Comments, so I rolled that in there.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
It wasn’t really, I think what we mentioned about having the Advance Calendar to see 
what are the items that we could put on for the next six months or rest of the year. It's not 
something we have to vote on but more about what we like to see in the Advance 
Calendar.  
 
SPEAKERS: 
Georgia Schuttish – Demo calcs 
 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented