5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for May 12, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I'm going to kick off with our land acknowledgement and then I’m going to share a few 
words about some of the incidents that’s been happening in this country this last week 
and invite other Commissioners to share comments as well.  
 
“The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 26, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 9 
 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples”. 
 
Thank you again for making space for that. There's a lot that have been going on this week 
and if we think about it, kind of even connects back to two years ago when George Floyd 
was killed in Minnesota. And his death set off kind of a nationwide interest -- renewed 
interest in racial reckoning with our country’s history and our present. Pursuit of equity 
and a desire to really transform our institutions and society to advance racial and social 
equity. And this Commission, I was not a member of the Commission at the time, took very 
bold action in the fallout and the wake of that tragedy to really commit our Department to 
centering racial and social equity and to really trying to see what we can do as part of that 
transformation and that push to reckon with our society’s past and to create a different 
future. And so, it's so politically unjust perhaps that on the eve as we're approaching the 
anniversary of his death, there is a massacre in Buffalo, New York, killing 10 people and 
wounding others, specifically racially motivated by the assailant and the gunman to 
further his efforts to stop the ridiculous theory about people of color replacing white 
people in this country.  
And then just this week, a massacre of 19 children, mostly age of 10, and two educators, 
and I don't have any words to say at this time to make sense of it. But to say that our work 
for racial and social equity is more important now than ever and if we ever thought we 
could let up or maybe things were getting better and we could just let it go, we have to 
remember that we have to push ourselves forward and our institutions forward. And not 
just to transform our policies but to transform how we treat and care for one another. And 
I would just encourage this Commission to think about with our time that we have given 
our low case load, is there space for us to think about both reflecting on what we’ve made, 
the progress in the last two years that had been significant. And I don't want it to go 
unrecognized and also to understand where we can push further. Where are the 
roadblocks we’re hitting, where can we advance, what is beyond our grasp as a 
department that we need aid from other levels of government or sister agencies to 
pursue? And so, I know it can seem silly to me in some ways like we have this huge tragedy 
and here we are business as usual, let's just keep going. And so, I do want to just have a 
moment for us to pause today but also to close this hearing in honor and memory of those 
who have lost their lives in this past week. So, those are my comments, Commissioners. 
Thank you for your time. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
I just have a question for just to follow President Tanner's comment on our Department’s 
commitment to center race and equity. What has been the status of the Equity Council and 
the work that they've been doing? And forgive me for not knowing what the structure is in 
place in terms of updating the Commission, does -- do we get regular updates as a 
Commission on the status of the Equity Council? And I think it might make sense for us -- if 
not, maybe we should be getting those updates on a more regular basis, just so we're in 
line with that commitment. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 26, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Commissioner Ruiz, just to respond, definitely the work is ongoing. Our equity work, the 
work with the council. The council was really set up to advise us as staff about how our 
work should change and transform, but happy to give updates to the Commission and 
even come and do an informational hearing if you think that would be useful as well. So, 
we're happy to do that and we can do that as part of a broader look at our work in 
response to the resolution you all passed two years ago. As President Tanner said, there is 
definitely been a lot of anxiety and concern about what's going on in the world around us 
and just how we redouble our efforts and refocus on what we're doing and really take 
stock of what we're doing to make sure it is kind of doing what we intended it to do and 
making change on the ground. So, happy to come back, especially with lighter calendars 
and give you a broader update on what is happening. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Yeah, I don't think it would make sense to have maybe weekly updates but maybe 
monthly updates if that makes sense. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. And we meet monthly and I think we update the website on what we're talking 
about with the council. We just had a meeting two days ago, two nights ago so, but happy 
to come back and talk about where things are. 
 
 
 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Yeah, just so we as the Commission too can help kind of inform maybe what is being 
discussed or if you need support from us in any way to help better create a structure for 
how we as a Department are centering that. But that sounds great. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
If I could just add to that, it would be great for those Commissioners or those Equity 
Council members who are able to come and join us during the hearing, would love to hear 
from them and thank them for their work. I know it's additional on top of their jobs that 
they join and support our work. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
First of all, thank you, President Tanner, and for showing that kind of vulnerability. I, 
myself, have, you know, tried to separate my public and personal feelings. And there are 
times I feel like lack of inspiration and in terms of us as in the Planning Commission, I've 
been thinking a lot too in terms of what can be, at least since our agenda has been short 
lately and I think it looks like it's going to be like that until July or, you know, and I've been 
thinking lately as to what kind of informational hearings at least that we can have here in 
the Planning Commission that in a way that we can be more thoughtful. There are times 
that when policies come to us, there is a lack of information or a lack of understanding in 
our behalf and we end up having a greater discussion, which is fine, that's our role. But 
perhaps we can really look into what other kind of informational hearings. And I would like 
to see as well and meet the Equity Council members. I think it would be great if we are 
invited or some of us in the Commission may be invited to sit down in their meeting 
sometimes and to understand what the discussions are going on there. But thank you. 
Those are my comments. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 26, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
You heard a long pause because I do think that all of us share on a personal level what you 
expressed as your observations and feelings and I couldn't be more supportive of what you 
said. I assumed that everybody saw Amanda Gorman’s Nobel Laureate’s short poem 
yesterday in the paper, couldn't have been said any better. A young woman who sees what 
is going on. On top of that, and I just kind of like speaking to an underlying sense of 
discontent that is everywhere in our country. I'm reading articles that much more into our 
area of responsibility. “Alameda residents fight housing plan to create 5,000 homes: We 
are fearful of losing paradise.” It was an article this morning in the paper and how they 
could take issue with how it is written, it speaks to increasing lack of respect from citizens 
for the institutions that we all are trying to uphold and work with, screaming, insulting, 
threats of recall, et cetera, et cetera. But the underlying message for me is we're being 
bombarded from left to right and I would like to have us reach out to other communities, 
be it Alameda, be it Oakland or Berkeley of how their Planning Commissions, their 
Planning Directors and their citizens are dealing with the ongoing incomprehensible 
legislation coming out of Sacramento. We all received a rather alarming e-mail from one of 
our citizen groups this week about AB916 ADU -- [Indiscernible] -- these are discussions I 
think we all share. Instead of pitching each other against each other in the larger bay 
region, I would like for us to have a common ground in which we take responsibility as we 
can but push back on those which we can't. There is a wide spectrum. San Francisco's 
particularly hit hard with incredibly off numbers to deliver housing at a scale that by far 
exceed what everybody else is asked. On the other hand, you see Alameda, for their own 
reasons fight only for adding 5,000 townhomes. I'd like to open that discussion and 
perhaps Director Hillis can reach out to other communities so we indeed can have a joint 
discussion of how we share the burden, where to accept and where to push back. Thank 
you. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
We can reach out to other jurisdictions. I think part of this is in where is the state going? 
Some of these bills obviously that are working their way through the legislature, we don't 
know where they're going to end up, but we can look at how they're responding to SB9 
and 10, things that have already passed and are being implemented and give you an 
overview of that and what is happening. Not just around the bay area, but also the larger 
cities, L.A., San Diego, Sacramento. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I think that would be great. Director Hillis, these are unsettling times no matter where you 
look, but this affects looking at our own lives and it would be helpful to have a broader 
dialogue or insight of what can be pushed back on successfully. 
 
 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
It's timely too, because I believe, this week or next week that bills either advance out of 
their chamber of origin or wait until the next life, so that might be timely to think about 
what's actually got legs in Sacramento.  
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 26, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 9