3. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 6, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Moore 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
We'll begin today’s Commissioner Comments and Questions with the land 
acknowledgment that I will share and then happy to share that Commissioner Diamond 
has taken me up on my offer to have other Commissioners share in reading that. So, I look 
forward to her sharing that in the coming weeks. 
 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
5. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for 
the next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] 
at a commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney – Response to comments and 
questions 
 
Patricia Boyd – Take into consideration the elderly and people with 
disabilities, Zoom meetings help 
ACTION:  
Adopted 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 20, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 8 
 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Moore 
RESOLUTION: 
21189