6. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for April 21, 2022 
• Draft Minutes for April 28, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioners. I will open this section with our land acknowledgement. 
 
“The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 12, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 10 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thank you, President Tanner. I just wanted to bring attention to a state assembly bill that 
I've been hearing about, 2011, which will allow residential housing to be built by right and 
infill areas currently zoned for office retail and parking uses so as long as developments 
adhere to specific standards. I know right now it's still going through the necessary 
committees but I wanted to raise this as a subject of importance and ask whether the 
Planning Department staff has been discussing this internally or studied what this could 
potentially mean for San Francisco. And if not, could there potentially be a study and map 
done to understand this in more depth. 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Thank you, Commissioner. Yes, we have been looking at trying to understand exactly what 
it would do to San Francisco's Land Use controls. One of our concerns is our PDR 
protections and how this state law would maybe erode some of those protections. So we 
are looking into it. We're having conversations internally and with City Hall about the 
ordinance as well. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thank you. Is there going to be a study that will be published that the Commission and the 
public can have access to or is it just discussions for now? 
 
 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
For now, it's just discussions. We may be bringing this to -- if it warrants and it moves 
forward, we may be bringing it to the State Legislative Committee for a City position on it. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Okay, thank you. Would there be any capacity to do an initial study or is that not 
something the Planning Department staff does unless it actually passes? 
 
 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
It's not something we normally do unless it passes. As it gets closer to, I guess September, 
which is when it needs to pass, we can reevaluate that. But when we did SB 9 and 10, we 
did wait for those to pass the State Assembly or get signed by the mayor. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Okay. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And I would just add Commissioner what we've done sometimes in the past is, because it's 
early in the process and obviously these state bills change or gets parked in some 
committee and don't move forward, we can provide information for you that's out there 
already on these bills and as it progresses perhaps a memo or at times, we've done 
informational hearings for more significant bills that may be moving forward. So, we can 
kind of entertain that as it moves forward. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Okay, yeah that would be great. Any initial information or a future memo would for sure be 
appreciated. Thank you. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 12, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
Thanks. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, Commissioner Ruiz. I'd be interested to see as well seeing the memo. But 
actually I would like to make an announcement that on May 26th, there's going to be a 
feature documentary film that is about the History of South of Market. It will be on May 26 
at Kapwa Gardens, 967 Mission Street. I think it would be, this is a good important 
documentary film and featuring some of the old footages of South of Market. I think it's 
important that we also look back into the history and how we have progressed in years 
and also in future years to come. So, hopefully, I know with Commission we cannot all be 
in the same place altogether but I hope a couple of Commissioners can attend. Thank you. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Thank you. Commissioner Imperial, did you have the time of that event? 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yes. It will be 5:00 pm to 8:30 pm. It’s on a Thursday, so if ever our hearing ends early or 
before 5 pm I think it would still be a good time to go. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Okay. We’ll knock on wood for that. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I read an article yesterday which I found fascinating. It spoke about extending a subway, 
similar to Central Subway up Geary Boulevard. It has a diagram on it. It spoke about that 
the Department actually had been involved and been looking at this. It sounded like a 
significant need more sellable idea although more expensive that having a BART on Geary, 
which has had a lot of opposition over the years that I've observed it. In any case I would 
love for the Department to present on that subject matter and give us a better idea how 
feasible it is. Obviously with transportation funding being more visible in Washington DC 
I'm wondering if that is something that has kind of like a near-term horizon to being 
discussed in more seriousness. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Great thank you. Mr. Johnson, do you want to address that? 
 
 
 
Doug Johnson: 
Doug Johnson, Transportation Planning Manager for the Citywide Division. I can just let 
you all know that Planning actually does have a role in that study. The San Francisco 
Transportation authority set aside funding at their board hearing last month. We do have a 
role in setting forward the long-term land-use framework for that in light of both the 
Housing Element and this expected investment. So, stay tuned. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I'm actually more interested in technically knowing if it is possible because many times we 
have studies like that but there are underground gas lines or whatever it all may be that 
makes it impossible. Have you looked at it technically? 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 12, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
 
 
Doug Johnson: 
That is certainly a component of the study. Our ability though to find every piece of 
infrastructure before we start projects, I think is proven to be quite challenging. Many of 
them predate any online or digital mapping of any kind so I just think has been well 
documented unfortunately in the news on some of our recent transit projects. That being 
said I think this has a proof of concept that's already been looked at enough times in the 
last 30 years for us to affirm it is a viable project. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Good, that's a good answer. Thank you so much and keep us posted please.