Vice President Moore: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
 
• Draft Minutes for August 25, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – Defer approval for one week 
ACTION:  
Continued to September 15, 2022 
AYES:  
Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
NAYS:  
Diamond 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I just want to bring up in terms of, it looks like our items for the rest of the year are getting 
less and less. I kind of want to have a better, I guess a better picture of what the rest of the 
year is going to look like for us. And I understand there are some continuances that, you 
know, I'm worried that we are beyond the 10 cancellation sessions and whether you know, 
how -- whether is this because of the less items that we're having the continuances? So, I 
know some of the members of the public have contacted me about what is going on and 
so, I would like to bring this up in terms of how is the rest of the year, our calendar looks 
like? And how were we – in terms of the continuances, what are the reasons for those 
continuances?  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Well, there's a variety of reasons for continuances. And the advanced calendar provides 
you an indication of what we know so far about our future calendars. I'm not sure -- 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I mean, just to jump in. Commissioner, you're right. There's less, we've got less fewer cases 
in front of the Commission. I mean, you know, our volume is down and that's now 
translating to less, fewer items before you here at the Commission. So, yes that could lead 
in -- I think, Jonas works with the chair to figure out how to be most efficient in scheduling 
these meetings and if we have back-to-back meeting was few items, perhaps we talked 
about consolidating them but it's ultimately up to the Commission chair to cancel 
meetings if there just aren't enough items or we want to consolidate items. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I guess I'm just trying to see if, are we expecting more cancellation for the rest of the year.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
We're definitely seeing less activity. So, again, you could meet and hear one item, a DR if 
you want to, or we can work with the Commission President to try to consolidate meetings 
if that's more efficient. So, I think these are way – ultimately, it's up to you.  
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. Yeah. That's good to know.   
 
Vice President Moore: 
Perhaps it would make sense for all of us to think about it and calendar it as a discussion 
item because we cannot go back and forth and opine on what each individually feels about 
it at the moment. There are definitely from my perspective, a number of big-ticket items. 
They are from my perspective a number of big-ticket items that people ask repeatedly to 
hear more about, one of them being the Housing Element. While it is scheduled on a 
regular schedule, perhaps having informal interim discussions would be helpful because 
we're still getting challenges from Sacramento left and right, not to get into any of the 
particular ballots you have been involved in most recently, but for us to be up to speed and 
really be prepared to take a major step, a consequential step next spring, would make 
sense to spread a couple of interim working meetings so to say into the calendar. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure.  
 
Vice President Moore: 
And again, if we would calendar the discussion for everybody to weigh in, think about it, 
hear what the public says, each of us has a different exposure, I think it would help. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Okay. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Also, may I speak. In terms of the, as what Commissioner Moore or Vice-President 
Commissioner Moore mentioned, like, I know that we are, or the City or the Planning 
Department, is in discussion with the HCD in terms of – as they are looking into or 
investigating about entitlement process, perhaps that's something we can have 
informational session about those discussions as well or update as the Planning 
Department having those kind of conversation and I think for the Commission, we need to 
be updated as well in those conversations. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. And just so you know, we've got that calendared for the 29th of this month. We want 
– we don't have the answers to HCD yet, but we wanted to come talk about you about 
what they are asking for, what their comments were to our Housing Element, get your 
feedback and comments back. So, you know, it will be more an update on where HCD is 
going in the process, less our response to HCD because we're in the midst of formulating 
that but we wanted your initial feedback on that. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you very much.  
 
Vice President Moore: 
Scheduling an informal meeting with the BIC committee may be helpful because as 
obviously many questions where we continuously run into misunderstandings while 
transmitting in the night, Historic Preservation which is making major important decisions 
on cultural district statements etcetera would be helpful, even meeting the new 
Commissioners, and, and, and – 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
So, Commissioners, if I'm hearing you correctly, we should add the advanced calendar as a 
topic for next week's agenda? 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Please. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Very Good. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
We may want to, I mean, just to, we may want to wait until we have a full complement of 
Commissioners back because they may have opinions as well on that and -- 
 
Vice President Moore: 
That doesn't mean we couldn't kickoff a light discussion just to toss out some ideas and 
you get to think about it. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I'd like to make another Commissioner comment. I'm sure you all read it, but since I'm now 
in my second meeting leading the Land Acknowledgement, it struck me as very moving 
that Oakland plans to allow an indigenous group the right to exclusive use five acres of city 
land. The first one in California. The city will grant an easement for Sequoia Point as a land 
trust at the Confederated Villages of Lisjan Nation which is the east bay Ohlone tribe. This 
is creating a cultural easement at Sequoia Point. A legal arrangement that allows the city 
to transfer the right of use for the land for cultural purposes including ceremonial 
traditions, native habitat restoration and education activities.