3. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for June 16, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 30, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 11 
 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner : 
Great. Thank you very much and we are glad to have you with us, shepherding us today. So, 
thank you so much for your work. We will start off with our land acknowledgment.  
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of 
the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As 
the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush 
Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the caretakers of this 
place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As guests, we 
recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish 
to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and Relatives of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as First Peoples. 
 
Thank you very much Commissioners for that time. I do just want to thank again staff for last 
week's hearing about what we can do to address the shortage of housing permits that we're 
facing and even thinking about permits that have been issued or projects that have been 
approved that are stalled a little bit. So, looking forward to keeping that conversation alive 
here at the Commission, working with other city agencies and other leaders in the city to 
really see how we can unlock housing and make sure we don’t end up with half as much 
housing this year as we’ve had in years passed.  So again, thank you, staff, and thanks for 
those who called in to give their comment. I thought it was very sobering, but good to get a 
reality check on what is actually happening and what folks are experiencing as they're trying 
to build more homes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for the 
next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] at a 
commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21134