5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 20, 2022 – Joint with Health hearing 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
• Draft Minutes for January 20, 2022 – Regular hearing  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I ask that we close in memory of Bob Planthold today. A transit and disability rights activist 
who has been in front of this Commission over the years many, many times, and giving us 
more than insightful thoughts on disability and what it means to be disabled and still be an 
activist. He was a wonderful person, challenging, never spared being critical of what we 
were doing, but always a great learning experience and diplomas. I ask that we close in his 
memory tonight. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I think that is a wonderful suggestion, and we'll happily do that. Thank you for bringing that 
before us. Before I call on Commissioner Chan, I just want to of course wish everyone a happy 
New Year. A great week for celebration. It also is the beginning of Black History month and 
so I wanted it to bring us a kind of fun Urban Planning fact in Black History so it kind of you 
know connect our field, and the work that we are doing and our wonderful staff are doing 
to Black History month. And so, today I want to honor Samuel J. Cullers, he is recognized as 
the first Black professionally trained urban planner and I have to say it's a little bit self-
serving because he went to my alma mater MIT and got his degree in Urban and Regional 
Planning there. So, I am so happy to be following in his footsteps, I hope at least a little bit.  
And in addition to working in the east coast and internationally, he worked here in California 
as well. So, just a really great person who did a lot of great work for a lot of communities in 
our country and also internationally.  And I'll close that with just a quote from him that I 
thought is very appropriate for our Commission to be thinking about. He said that "the main 
purpose of Planning is to see where we are going in terms of where we have been, and then 
to assist in changing direction toward where we want to go". And I think that speaks well of 
what we're trying to do here each week. We're here where we are, we look back to know 
where we've been, and we try to change directions to go the way that we want to go. So, I 
hope that we can keep that in mind as we continue to convene this year and of course today 
as well. 
 
 
Commissioner Chan: 
Thank you, President Tanner. First of all, thank you Commissioner Moore for that lovely 
tribute to Mr. Planthold. I also wanted to wish everyone who celebrates a happy Lunar New 
Year. May the Year of the Tiger bring forth a courageous self in everything you do. So, I 
wanted to share today that this is actually my last hearing at the Commission. Being a new 
mom I decided to prioritize my family at this time especially as we're juggling life as working 
parents with a young child. With all that entails on top of Covid, it just leaves a lot in its wake. 
But if you would indulge me, I just wanted to share a few words of gratitude and some 
reflection.  
So, I'm incredibly grateful for the opportunity to serve. I joined the Commission in May 2020. 
And looking back at what we know now, I think myself, maybe all of us, were trying to 
navigate these unchartered waters with the information that we had. And I think particularly 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
during those uncertain times, I was really proud to have deepen my commitment to the city 
that I call home and that I love so much. When I first joined the Commission, I found that 
one of the most difficult aspects was thinking about how each project fits within the broader 
vision of San Francisco that we can meet those present and future San Franciscans. I know 
that Covid really threw a lot of those assumptions to the wind, but whenever I got stuck 
thinking about a project or how to vote, I really tried to ask myself, you know what my future 
self would think, and trying to figure out what would be a timeless kind of decision that go 
beyond the immediacy of each project that really aligns with the long range vision of the 
city that we collectively want to be and become. So, whenever I found myself turning a 
project in my head from all possible angles, I found it was really helpful for me to go back to 
my experiences working as a community planner really advocating for immigrant and 
marginalized communities. As someone with both professional and economic training as a 
planner, I also have had the opportunity to grow up in a large city as a daughter of Chinese 
immigrants and really benefit from all the things that a great city had to provide with 
cultural resources, affordable housing, and schools. Just really thinking about, for this kid 
growing up in Manhattan, what I was able to benefit from and the type of city that I hope 
my child will be able to grow up in.  
During my time on the Commission, I am especially proud of the steps that we took to roll 
out the Department's Racial and Social Equity work. It had been really hearten to see our 
Commission and staff committed to continuing this work through the Budget Allocation 
process, the Housing Elements, and many other aspects. There is, of course, always room to 
grow, and I think some of the unfinished business is figuring out how to institutionalize the 
intent of the resolution that we passed in summer of 2020. And the work of the 
Commission's evaluation of projects and with the Department's processes and really trying 
to think of ways to make it as seamless and frictionless as possible to be able to execute and  
do the work of Racial and Social Equity. I think that work comes at various scales, whether 
it's understanding the very micro low work flow of the Department, to trying to align that 
with the broader state regulations. But I think, long term change comes with collaboration, 
partnership, and really working to have dialogue into bringing people on board with you in 
a way that we can  work across all sectors so that we can really achieve what the Commission 
and the Department has set out to do.  
Finally, thank you so much to my fellow Commissioners. It has been great spending 
Thursdays with you. I really learned a lot from each and every one of you. Thank you, Director 
Hillis, Jonas, Department staff. I know how hard you all work. I also want to thank members 
of the public for taking the time to write to our Commission. Given the volume of 
correspondence that we receive I'm not possible to respond to each and every letter but I 
did want to share with you that I do read the letters as I do consider your perspectives when 
we deliberate. So, that is all for now. I will very much be continuing to think about land use 
and community planning on my mind as I'm finishing my Ph.D. project about San Francisco 
Chinatown but I just wanted to say thank you to everyone. And until the next time, I am 
looking forward to crossing paths again. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Chan. And when I call on Commissioner Moore, and I hope you're 
ready to be -- I don't know if you'll be smiling or turning red, but you might be getting some 
accolades from your fellow Commissioners. So, I hope you're ready to be loved on a little bit. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Deland, we are not only colleagues on the Commission, but we are almost neighbors, except 
we unfortunately never had the opportunity to really meet three-dimensionally. I have 
never seen you in person except I know you because I see you.  And I do miss that three-
dimensional familiarity with you, and perhaps we'll cross on the street going to the store or 
you pushing your stroller up the hill. I wish you all the best. Happy New Year and may the 
Year of the Tiger propel you forward into a wonderful future. Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Let me echo the sentiments. Sorry to not have met in person. I know these last two years has 
been beyond turbulent. And I just want to be thankful and put on the record that I was 
grateful to have you as a Commissioner while I was president during those two years. So, it 
is a lot easier to run the show when you have a great group and cast supporting you.  And I 
want to especially call out your very high level load of involvement throughout those years. 
Not only do we have other jobs outside of this Commission and lives outside of those, as 
well, but we still are going to have different levels of input throughout the course of the 
hearings and the years. And  I just want to specifically thank you for staying involved with 
the internship and the social and racial equity piece. Thanks again. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, President Tanner, and I wish you well, Commissioner Chan. I wish we could have 
met in person, and I wish we could have worked longer. I hope you realize that you did 
contribute -- you did contribute a lot in the Commission, especially with the racial and 
equities resolution, and I was happy to be part of that resolution with this Commission. I 
think that was one of the biggest achievement that we have worked with you. So thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
 
Deland, good luck in your future endeavors. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I, too, regret not having been able to meet in person, but I hope that happens in the future. 
I truly appreciate the thoughtfulness of your comments as we deliberated on these complex 
matters. And I want to wish you much luck going forward as you balance the joys of 
motherhood with the challenges of a professional career and find the right balance for you. 
So, until we meet again. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
And I'll add my voice to the chorus. Just want to thank you so much for the leadership that 
you have shown. The way that you engage the public very thoughtful questions and all the 
behind the scenes work that you did with the internship program to bring that to fruition. 
And just hope that you feel so proud of the time that you dedicated to the city, and not just 
leaving your mark on buildings but also people through the internship program and careers 
and future San Franciscans possibly. So I am super sad to see you leave, but I'm happy you're 
doing the thing that you need to do for you and your family. And so thank you for giving the 
city the time that you did give the city and we will definitely, definitely be missing you. Like 
the others, I do hope that I'll meet all of you in person, and even if you're not part of the 
Commission, maybe you'll stop by on Thursdays and see you sometime or maybe we'll see 
your name on the inbox for a project you want to give us your thoughts on. We would 
certainly welcome that.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If you would indulge me, I would also like to echo those comments, Commissioner Chan. 
And especially make note of your inciteful comments throughout on land use in general in 
specific projects, and your ability to articulate those concerns. So, thank you and good luck. 
 
7. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for the 
next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] at a 
commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Georgia Schuttish – Allow the traditional 3 minutes for public comments 
 
Sue Hestor – Timely posting 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21065