3. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Commissioners, I am sorry that I am not with you all in person today. I unfortunately have 
Covid. It finally caught me someplace in San Francisco. And so, I am taking advantage of 
our Hybrid schedule and or setup and participating remotely today. I do still want to start 
off with our land acknowledgment that we have and then make a few comments and open 
up to my fellow Commissioners. So I just want to thank you again for your indulgence in 
this new format. I do believe, maybe just one note before the land acknowledgement that  
for those of you who are in the chamber, that the secretary will type to me if you’ve raised 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 16, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 16 
 
your hand, but if there is an awkward pause or you wanted to say something and I maybe 
missed you, please just maybe speak into the microphone and I’ll hear you. So, we are kind 
of getting used to something new even though we have been doing this remote hybrid 
thing for a bit. New experiences. So I will just begin right now with our land 
acknowledgment.  
 
“The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples.” 
 
And before I pass the mic to Commissioner Moore, I just want to recognize this weekend is 
Juneteenth. Last year it was made a federal holiday that will be celebrated on Monday 
recognizing the true end to slavery for those folks who were enslaved in Texas who didn’t 
understand and know that the civil war had ended until two years after. So, we hope that 
you will enjoy some festivities this weekend and mark this new National Holiday that many 
in the Black community have been celebrating for many, many, many years.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I only want to express my heartfelt best wishes to you with Covid and hope that you will  
recover as quickly as possible. I am so sorry to hear that. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you. I really appreciate that. 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Thank you. I ask the Commissioners to indulge me a little bit here because I have a number 
of comments I want to make. I have been thinking almost nonstop about our draft EIR 
hearing last week and I want to share some thoughts on that with all of you. Given the 
dramatic impact that the post action in the Housing Element update has on the west side, I 
was astonished that none of the west side neighborhood group showed up to participate 
in last week’s hearing and that few, if any, have submitted comments on the draft EIR. That 
is particularly surprising to me and maybe to many of you given that we hear from west 
side neighbors almost on a weekly basis about their concerns in rate and increase in height 
of even one story on an adjacent property, let alone the 4-6 stories addressed by the 
proposed action in the draft EIR. So, after asking around after the hearing, I learned that 
some, maybe most of these groups, had no idea that the draft EIR was proposing height 
increases up to 85 feet on numerous residential side streets that are already built out with 
houses that are primarily 2-3 stories at most. I asked staff for a copy of the notice that went 
to the groups regarding the availability of the draft EIR to see if it was clear to the average 
reader what the draft EIR is proposing. It states and I quote “SF Planning assumes that 
adoption of the Housing Element update would lead to future actions such as Planning 
Code amendments to increase height limits along transit corridors and to modify density 
controls in low density areas that are primarily located on the west and north sides of the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 16, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 16 
 
city”. I personally don't believe that the average reader would interpret the phrase 
“increased height limits along transit corridors” to mean an increase in height limits to 55, 
65, 85, in some cases 240 feet. Not only on the commercial streets where transit is located 
but on the quiet residential side streets between the commercial streets where transit is 
located. And there’s nothing in the language in the notice that would lead the average 
reader to understand either 1) what is being proposed is a very significant height increase 
relative to the current urban fabric on these side streets or that this density and height 
increase is not really equitably distributed across the west side but is concentrated in 
certain areas. In fact, unless you spend time reading the entire 600 webpage DEIR, you 
wouldn't discover that the proposed action in the draft EIR shows only one possible 
distribution of this height and that is figure 2.7 on page 2-25. I believe that in order for 
CEQA to do its job as a disclosure process that informs our decision making, not only does 
the Draft EIR need to thoroughly examine the impacts but we also need to make sure that 
the project description in the DEIR notice sufficiently alerts the public as to the aspects of 
the proposed action that we know will be of the most concern to them. We can’t bury the 
lead. As a result, I believe that Planning should reach out to all these neighborhood groups 
on the west side right now and make sure they are aware of the proposed height 
increases, not only on commercial streets with transit but also on the residential side 
streets, and that we should extend comment period on the Draft EIR another 3 weeks so 
that these groups have time to absorb the implications in the document, go through their 
own internal processes of decision making for neighborhood groups which can be quite 
complex and then submit comments if in fact they have any. I have a couple more 
comments on the draft EIR but maybe I’ll stop there because I am interested in staff’s 
reaction to that suggestion, and of course any of the Commissioner's thoughts on that. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Diamond. I want to just certainly echo the need for making sure 
that folks understand what is going on because we certainly want to have a robust 
discussion and make sure that that happens through the EIR and through the other 
Planning processes from the Housing Element. I wonder if Director Hillis or other staff want 
to respond to the questions raised and also the idea of an extension of time. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure, let me take a first crack, and I think Lisa Gibson is here too, who can talk about 
potentially extending the comment period for the draft EIR. One, I too wanted to talk 
broadly about our outreach because I think it’s been actually extremely thorough. Have we 
gone to every neighborhood group? No, I can’t say we have but we certainly notified every 
neighborhood group that is on our list of the EIR as well as the fact that the Housing 
Element is being prepared. We have talked to every supervisor I think numerous times 
about this and what is in the document and offered to attend neighborhood meetings that 
they may want us to attend. I am optimistic that one of the reasons we are not hearing a 
lot from the neighborhood groups on the west side is they are becoming more and more 
open to the idea and the need for housing on the west side. But we will see as this process 
rolls out and I certainly want to make sure we are giving community groups and residents 
the opportunity to [inaudible]. I think too, we have to be careful about what is being 
studied in the EIR is not necessarily a zoning proposal. A zoning proposal is not before you 
nor is it as part of the Housing Element. That would all come after the Housing Element is 
adopted. But it certainly points us in a direction and in studying impacts to potential 
zoning actions that you and the Board of Supervisors may take in the future to implement 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 16, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 16 
 
the Housing Element. So, with that said I’ll,  Ms. Gibson are you here to talk about potential 
extension of the comment period? 
 
Lisa Gibson: 
Yes, I am, Director Hillis. This is Lisa Gibson, Environmental Review officer. Thank you, 
Commissioner Diamond for your comments. I do concur with Director Hillis that the project 
description for the EIR does reflect that the Housing Element update would modify the 
policies of the general plans of the Housing Element but would not implement specific 
changes to existing land use controls. Any changes to the controls would require 
legislative processes including review and public hearings before the Planning 
Commission and Board of Supervisors. Approval of the housing development or 
infrastructure would require development applications and approval. So again, the project 
description in the EIR in our notices is clear that the element update itself is not re-zoning. 
That said, I understand your desire to ensure that the public has the opportunity to 
comment on the EIR, that they understand the document and the analysis. So, your 
request for an extension of three weeks is one that we can accommodate. This is a project 
that is one of a city-wide scope. There is a great deal of interest and we want to receive 
people’s comments on the EIR. Our team is working diligently already on the comments 
that we have received and we are under a very tight schedule to do so and to meet our 
state deadline, so we do hope that the three weeks will be sufficient for your purposes. 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I really appreciate that. How do you notify groups and everybody else that wishes to 
partake in this additional three week period that the extension has been granted? 
 
Lisa Gibson: 
I am going to need to confer with my staff to address that. I don't know. I am happy to get 
back to you and inform the Commissioners of once we have a chance to explore how best 
to do so. 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Okay. I really do appreciate that and I understand that you are working under tight 
deadlines. But I also believe that it is in our interest to make sure that given the enormity 
of this project and its implications that we really have made sure the groups on the west 
side understand what this document is and what it isn't but what it could lead to. And to 
that extent I have a couple other comments on the draft EIR that I just want to put out 
there. The first is that I really believe that the FEIR must include more than one possible 
future distribution of the height and density in order to better equip ourselves to use this 
EIR to cover other distributions that may ultimately be adopted as part of the Planning 
Code amendments. By including only one possible solution, the DEIR perhaps 
unintentionally appears to be guiding decision-makers towards a specific outcome on the 
distribution for the potential eventual Planning Code amendments without their having 
any public hearings yet on what that use might ultimately be. For me at at least at a 
minimum, I think that the DEIR should include at least one other distribution with a more 
equitable allocation of height increase across all of the west side so that everybody on the 
west side bears their fair share of a height increase without the imposition, as I’ve said last 
week, of the 85 feet or even 65 feet on just certain particular residential side streets. Lastly, 
I and am sure along with many of you read with distress the many announcements of 
companies leaving some or all of their office space in our downtown and mid-market 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 16, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 16 
 
areas. Not only is the loss of the economic engine worrisome but is also means the 
[inaudible] loss of many of the smaller retailers who are so dependent on office space 
users. I think we need to acknowledge that the decline in the use of downtown office 
space is no longer simply a short term pandemic phenomenon but has resulted in a 
wholesale change in the attitude about remote and hybrid work. So, my thoughts are how 
can we make lemonade out of lemons. I believe we should be studying right now what it 
would realistically take to convert some of the underutilized downtown office space into 
other uses such as housing, so that we are creating a vibrant mixed-use district that 
supports retail, office, housing and tourism. Our Housing Element update that we’re 
talking about right now for which you prepared the draft EIR was started before this 
phenomena. And, at the time it seemed appropriately focused on the west side as the 
place where the bulk of the new housing should be built but as we have seen in the draft 
EIR there is insufficient transit and wastewater capacity on the west side, and we are 
disrupting many of the neighborhoods to try to fit in more housing on the west side. While 
I firmly believe that the bulk of the new housing should go to the west side, I think that we 
should include in this Housing Element, right now, an exploration about what it would 
take to incentivize downtown office building owners. And I assume it is most likely the 
older buildings that have windows that open with floorplates that are a little smaller to 
convert their underutilized, older buildings, to residential use. I have more to say on that 
when we get to the Harrison Street project. I referenced this last week and I really don't 
think it is speculative at this point and I do believe that it is worth exploring in the Housing 
Element whether or not these existing buildings might be a very good resource for us as a 
potential source of housing in a transit rich neighborhood. But thank you. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thanks, Commissioner Diamond. Director Hillis, I know we have discussed, I believe next 
week, having a discussion around the state of the economy and some things on that 
matter so I don’t know if you want to address that. And I see Ms. Gibson, if you want to 
respond as well. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just on the broader question. I mean, certainly we can. It’s on top of our mind to what the 
future of downtown and the impact of the pandemic will have on the demand for office 
space. I could say to date although there has been a lot of talk of converting office to 
housing, we haven't seen a ton of interest in that from owners or project sponsors but I 
totally agree with Commissioner Diamond that that may change as leases run up and we 
could see more vacancy in our downtown core. So, we can certainly look at that. I don't 
know if we can count on, and I want to avoid having a big discussion about this today too 
because I think we are bordering on the territory that we’ve got an agenda item that is on 
the calendar that we did not agendize. But certainly we can look at that in next week’s 
hearing about the state of permit activity and development project that is more focused 
on housing and why, what projects are moving forward and where they are in entitlement 
phase, and why they may not be moving forward. I think we know why office projects 
aren't necessarily moving forward at this point although we have a few, one today. But we 
can add that and come back on a future agenda item and talk about that in this notion or 
possibility of converting office space to housing.  
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you for that Director Hillis. Ms. Gibson, did you want to respond as well? 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 16, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 16 
 
 
Lisa Gibson: 
Yes. I wanted to please remind the Commissioners and members of the public that we 
welcome your comments on the draft EIR and that those comments should be submitted 
to us in writing. So, we know Commissioner Diamond that you are intending to do so and 
we welcomed your comments today and we hope that you will include them in written 
comments. We are calculating three week extension which would be from our current as of 
today, we had the comment period on the draft EIR with ending June 21st.  So, with the 
three week extension the comment period will end on Tuesday, July 12th, at 5:00 PM. 
Members of the public can and the Commissioners can submit their comments in writing 
to us at the email address that is on our website for these comments. It is 
CPC.HousingElementUpdateEIR@sfgov.Org .Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Thank you, everyone.