Vice President Moore: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
5. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
 
• Draft Minutes for August 25, 2022 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – Defer approval for one week 
ACTION:  
Continued to September 15, 2022 
AYES:  
Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
NAYS:  
Diamond 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I just want to bring up in terms of, it looks like our items for the rest of the year are getting 
less and less. I kind of want to have a better, I guess a better picture of what the rest of the 
year is going to look like for us. And I understand there are some continuances that, you 
know, I'm worried that we are beyond the 10 cancellation sessions and whether you know, 
how -- whether is this because of the less items that we're having the continuances? So, I 
know some of the members of the public have contacted me about what is going on and 
so, I would like to bring this up in terms of how is the rest of the year, our calendar looks 
like? And how were we – in terms of the continuances, what are the reasons for those 
continuances?  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Well, there's a variety of reasons for continuances. And the advanced calendar provides 
you an indication of what we know so far about our future calendars. I'm not sure -- 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I mean, just to jump in. Commissioner, you're right. There's less, we've got less fewer cases 
in front of the Commission. I mean, you know, our volume is down and that's now 
translating to less, fewer items before you here at the Commission. So, yes that could lead 
in -- I think, Jonas works with the chair to figure out how to be most efficient in scheduling 
these meetings and if we have back-to-back meeting was few items, perhaps we talked 
about consolidating them but it's ultimately up to the Commission chair to cancel 
meetings if there just aren't enough items or we want to consolidate items. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission