4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
While I'm waiting to see if anybody has any comments or questions, I just want to wish 
everybody a happy Women's History Month. So, hopefully March is going out, starting well 
for everybody and I am very grateful to see the rain today. Although, we're just getting little 
drops or drizzle, but hopefully we get some more rain as you know the drought is continuing 
to challenge all of us. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If there are no Commission comments or questions, Commissioners, if you would indulge 
me, I wanted to suggest that in recognition of the recent events in Eastern Europe, I would 
suggest that we might consider adjourning in opposition to the unnecessary and tragic loss 
of life and in support for peace between two sibling nations. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
That's a wonderful suggestion. Certainly the least that we can do as a Commission. Thank 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
you for reminding us, Jonas, of the tragic events that are continuing to unfold right now in 
Ukraine. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I'd like to support that position as it also reflects the City's attitude. City hall is lit up in 
support of the Ukraine. I'm not sure if you saw it last night, there was a picture in the paper 
showing the colors of the Ukrainian flag are completely engulfed in City Hall and it looks 
very, very beautiful as sad as this event. And I think is an appropriate way of recognizing of 
what is going on. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Thank you, Commissioners. I appreciate that. 
 
 
5. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action and adoption of findings 
under California government code section 54953(e) to allow remote meetings during the 
COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for the next 30 days; direct the 
Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution at a Commission meeting within 30 
days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – Status of March 24th hearing 
 
Georgia Schuttish – Appropriate distancing in Room 400, time for public 
comments 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21085