President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
And again I will be working inviting each of you to take a turn sharing our land 
acknowledgment and we can set up maybe some kind of schedule or something as we will 
do that and you will see this also listed an item on our agenda under our Commission 
Matters. So, something that we're adjusting and making more regular. The other thing 
that I will add is we had an election last week. We had some final votes counted yesterday 
and just want to thank our election workers and election officials and everyone who 
volunteered or participated and voted and had our election process go smoothly, and I 
know there are winners, there are folks who didn't win their races or propositions that folks 
cared passionately about on all sides. But again, just good to see democracy at work here 
in San Francisco and again thanks to all the election workers who help make it happen. 
7.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for November 3, 2022
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
8.
Commission Comments/Questions
None.
9.
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for
the next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion]
at a commission meeting within 30 days.

San Francisco Planning Commission