7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I’d like to start off with our land acknowledgement that I will be reading today. And again, 
just to run it be the other Commissioners if they want to take part of this in the future that, 
please sign up. Just let me know either a minute before the hearing or preferably before it 
is read at some time.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 31, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples.   
Thank you. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like the Planning Department to acknowledge the following – in the last week, 
three times I have noticed a visual impaired person struggling up a sidewalk which was 
completely obstructed by scooters which were parked perpendicular to the curb, and 
porta-potties of the construction sites which was clearly obstructing the clear passage on 
an uphill sidewalk. As stewards of Better Streets, somebody needs to grab the ball and deal 
with these unacceptable obstructions. And I'm looking for the Planning Department, 
perhaps to with work others to address this. There is mode of transportation involved in 
here and the incredible increase in residential construction has made sidewalks to become 
steeplechase. I ask for the Commissioners; support and ask the Department to address this 
issue. Thank you. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I’ll just say thank you Commissioner Moore for bringing that to our attention. I certainly 
something I think we all observe on our day-to-day life. And so, I'm not sure Director, if 
went to reach out to the MTA or Public Works and how we might, through our permitting 
or with DBI and other partners, try to limit the impacts of scooters and some of the other 
things that are taking up room on the sidewalks. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
What I can do, President Tanner and Commissioner Moore, is put this on a future agenda of 
our director's working group which was formed to address issues like this that kind of cross 
department boundaries and Public Works is there and MTA is there. So, I will include that 
on the future agenda and report back to you all. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Thank you.