5. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
6. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for November 30, 2023 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner  
7. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Over the weekend, there was an article in the Chron about a property owner who is, went through a lot of process 
to get his deck approved. Um, and I wondered if Director Hillis you want to comment on the process he went 
through and whether that's typical and, you know, the role Planning Department tries to play and expediting. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I mean, so it was a variance, right? He needed a variance because the existing building is built into the 
required rear yard. So, to expand that with a deck, he needed a variance for that project. I think where things got 
kind of off on the wrong track is he also needed a 311, he had to notify neighbors with his building permit. Those 
weren't combined. So, he did the variance first and then did the 311 notice. Normally we suggest that those 
things happen at the same time, so there aren't kind of two areas where you need to notify neighbors. In this 
case, I don't know the details on why that didn't happen, but that didn't happen in this case. Whether it was the 
project sponsor or there was some miscommunication on our part. But normally those travel together, so there's 

San Francisco Planning Commission