18.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for May 25, 2023
•
Draft Minutes for June 1, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Ruiz 
19.
Commission Comments/Questions
President Tanner:
Thank you all for a great hearing. I know it’s been long and I know we have a couple of
long hearings coming up because of having to reshuffle but we will be working to try to
make those as smooth and efficient as possible. So, thank you for your time. And also, I
think there are some open houses coming up that you’re going to talk about soon.
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
There are. And just before Alex leaves right there. Alex, I just wanted to thank you for the
tremendous amount of work he’s done on the Castro Theatre. It wasn’t just today’s
hearing, it’s the landmark amendment that’s before HPC, the Board hearings, and this

San Francisco Planning and Historic Preservation Commissions 
 
Thursday, June 15, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 13 of 15 
 
hearing. And he’s passionate about the theatre and the work he does with our 
Preservation Team. So, thank you. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you very much, Alex. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes, and we have two open houses coming up about, regarding the Housing Element 
implementation and the rezoning work. They are next – 
 
President Tanner: 
It’s the 22nd and the 11th of July. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Right. June 22nd and then the 11th of July. We will send you more details. They are on our 
website as well. The one on the 22nd is at the LGBTQ Center and the one on July 11th is in 
Golden Gate Park. We’ll send details to you but again, on our website. Please feel free to 
join us and they start at 5:30.  
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
The project that was in front of us just a few minutes on Consent, 667 Folsom Street, is 
again one of the projects approved originally in 2017. It is 230 units that are being pushed 
out by another 4 years. And my question to the Commission is with the Housing Element 
hanging over our head to deliver units and get them built, I’m trying to figure out why we 
are continuing to extend entitlements. And this is actually a very good project but we are 
falling behind at an extremely rapid rate. And that is where my question came in the take it 
off Consent; however, this project is only one example for many others. And I think we’re 
shooting ourselves on the foot with particular as project exceeds 5 years having been 
entitled and not delivering because these are large important sites and we’ve got to 
capture these sites for some form of delivery. So, I’m looking for the Department to report 
on us what has been approved, what, how many units there are, because we need some 
way along a pro bono extension in the Housing Element not to have to deliver at the rate 
as we do. Because these projects were approved, they went to the proper reviews and 
approvals and we can’t deliver them. Not this group. We can approve them quickly but we 
can’t deliver them. And I don’t want to be having double penalty spending as much time 
as we do on approval and trying to make things happen and abracadabra they don’t 
happen.   
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
It’s obviously an extremely tough economic environment to get housing built, and so, you 
face the same frustration I think we all face. You have a choice between whether you 
terminate the entitlement, which would mean they would have to come back and go 
through the entire process to get re-entitled, or we extend it. I don’t think just by virtue of 
us saying we’re not going to extend the entitlement; you are going to get the housing 
built. But I think just the economic conditions of today, and that’s at least what we hear 
from project sponsors as well as our own consultants on this is not necessarily feasible to 

San Francisco Planning and Historic Preservation Commissions 
 
Thursday, June 15, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 14 of 15 
 
build these given the financing markets and given the costs of construction and where 
kind of market rental rates are or (inaudible). So, we have to reface that, I mean, we’re all 
frustrated by that.     
Commissioner Moore: 
Do we have a lobbyist in Sacramento rather than feeling like somebody is putting a gun 
against our head? Because (inaudible) – 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Well, we certainly, the Housing Element time period is 8 years. Right? So, we’re extending 
these still within that 8-year RHNA cycle that our Housing Element covers. So, if it’s built 
within the time frame that we’ve extended it, we will still get credit under our RHNA goals 
for those projects.    
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Do we have a lobbyist to keep Sacramento updated that indeed all communities including 
ours in particular is rapidly falling behind— 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. I mean -- 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Because we have created approval, we have created thorough guidance – 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, yeah. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thoughtful guidance to many, many projects and they are in the thousands of units. And 
we’re not getting them. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. And generally, we don’t need a lobbyist in Sacramento. We tell them. We report on 
our (inaudible) numbers. They know we’re kind of, I mean, we’re not unique in the state as 
to where we are with housing production.  
 
President Tanner: 
Yup. So, since we have another item, if we don’t have any other Commissioner Comments 
or Questions, Commissioner Diamond, did you want to share something? 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Yeah. Well it’s 8 years. I thought we put something into the Housing Element that there 
was that half --    
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Right. We would go and look at, kind of a mid-year review, but we would certainly make 
the argument, you know, that we’re not producing units because of where we are 
economically not because of our efforts. You know, our lack of efforts to make changes to 
our processes or to rezone. You know those are happening, you know, both before the 
Commission, what we've heard, what's coming up. The tax recommendations. So, we're 

San Francisco Planning and Historic Preservation Commissions 
Thursday, June 15, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 15 of 15 
making the right moves, but I think we, you know, we're faced with, with kind of broader 
economic challenges and housing gets built cyclically. 
13.
2023-003461PCA 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525)
POLK STREET AND HAIGHT STREET NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS [BF 230410] –
Planning Code Amendments – An ordinance, sponsored by Supervisor Peskin, to amend
the Planning Code to permit Health Services uses on the ground floor for specified areas of
the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD), to clarify that in the Polk Street
NCD and within a quarter-mile of its boundaries Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments
where any Tobacco Paraphernalia is sold, delivered, distributed, furnished, or marketed are
not permitted, to clarify that in the Haight Street NCD such Tobacco Paraphernalia
Establishments require conditional use authorization, and to clarify that Tobacco
Paraphernalia Establishments do not include medicinal and adult-use cannabis retail uses;
and affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California
Environmental Quality Act, making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the
eight priority policies of the Planning Code, Section 101.1, and making findings of public
necessity, convenience, and welfare pursuant to the Planning Code, Section 302.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Modifications
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff report 
ACTION:  
After being pulled off of Consent; Approved without Staff modifications
AYES: 
 
Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
NAYS :  
Diamond
ABSENT: 
Ruiz
RESOLUTION : 
21339 
ADJOURNMENT 6:43 PM 
ADOPTED JUNE 29, 2023