3.
Land Acknowledgement 
Commissioner Braun:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 3 of 19 
 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples.  
 
4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 30, 2023 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT : 
Ruiz 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Great, thank you. I just want to share Commissioners, I was able to talked with 
Commissioner Ruiz a little bit over the weekend and saw a picture of her new daughter, 
Violet. Mom and baby are both doing very well. So, if she happens to be watching, we’re 
wishing you the best and we do miss you, but I hope you are having a good time as a new 
mom. And then, of course tonight is the Warriors’ game so we want to send some good 
wishes for a win. First win of this playoff for them here at home. So, looking forward to 
that. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Well, I’ll chime in go Warriors. But I actually wanted to ask Director Hillis for some wisdom 
here. Wisdom. I am reading with increased frequency about projects becoming more and 
more questionable. The latest I’ve heard was the disagreement between partners at 
Treasure Island. And in light of everything what we’re doing, I am very disturbed about 
that. That is obviously the closing of One Oak as we know it  and the list goes on. And I’m 
kind of wondering where that leaves us. Is there anybody who is carefully assessing that 
this is happening and in what kind of predicament it puts us in?  Because these are 
significant numbers in our Housing Element and they seriously tracked on our ability to 
meet our goals since we have diligently, and you and I know that best, worked on this 
project for almost over a decade. What do we do? Who’s listening to us and gives us a 
break?  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
It’s a great question and we are working on it with other agencies including OEWD, the 
board, the Controllers Office. I was going to mention in my Director’s report that the TAC, 
which is the Technical Advisory Committee, which is not the greatest sounding name of a 
committee, but they’ve got an important role to look at project feasibility and look at the 
inclusionary rates and other fees we charge to see why projects may not be moving 
forward as, you know, construction costs, can fees play a role,  do we provide additional 
time on entitlements? And so, they’ve made a recommendation to the Board of 
Supervisors which will ultimately become legislation and come to you all. But I think we 
are grappling with them and other agencies on just this question. So, you will have a 
chance to weigh in on that as well as, you know, the Mayor put forward changes to our 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 4 of 19 
 
processes to make it easier to entitle projects. I know this doesn’t help projects that are 
already entitled but the TAC changes do because they are looking to make changes to 
existing entitled projects. On DA projects, again, the mayor put forward a legislation that 
allows project sponsors that have significant infrastructure requirements to tap in to tax 
increment financing to be able to meet those obligations which could help some of these 
larger DA projects. So, it’s a huge issue and definitely on our radars with other agencies in 
the city to try to get those projects moving. One Oak for example, their entitlement stay, 
right, I mean just because the project sponsor were, is not the one who’s necessarily 
executing that project. Those entitlements still exist. The bank who took over that project 
will look for another entity to carry forward on those entitlements. And hopefully some of 
these changes that the TAC is recommending will see them subsume through an 
ordinance and make changes that will help those projects. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
So, all very large number projects and that’s why they are really just staking out. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yup. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
And these are south sites, not to mention [inaudible] which is even around longer -- 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Park Merced. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
And we are basically holding the bag which promises which have been made and can’t be 
delivered. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Actually that was also something that I want to bring up is about the news about 0ne Oak 
that, you know, it came before us and we also asked, scrutinized, in a way asked the 
feasibility of the development. But I guess my way to look into it as well as part of the 
Housing Element because part of the policy goals that we put in of course is prioritizing the 
affordable housing. And whether, you know, this site or other sites that may not be 
feasible by the private market perhaps that can be identified for land banking or affordable 
housing. Again, it calls for funding as well. So, that is something also to think about for us, 
or for the city as these projects are becoming infeasible. So, that would be my comment on 
that. Thank you. 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah. Thank you for that, Commissioner Imperial. Certainly I think there is the group that 
the mayor put together that is looking how to meet our affordable housing goals and 
maybe that can be, I know it’s part of our Housing Element so certainly a strategy to think 
about how to possibly acquire those, those sites. 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 5 of 19 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Thank you. Just to follow on to Commissioner Moore’s question. So we are completely 
reliant on the private market to produce the housing and as a Commission, we approve 
tens of thousands of units and it doesn’t do much good. They just sit on paper. And we’re 
told these projects are infeasible. But I’m wondering if it might be helpful to have --  
 
Laura Lynch, Acting Commission Secretary: 
I hate to interrupt. I just want to make sure that we’re not having a discussion about 
something that’s not on today’s agenda so,  
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
We’re not. 
       
Laura Lynch, Acting Commission Secretary: 
I just want to advise you all of that. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I’m wondering if it might be possible to put together an information session with the, a 
number of the private housing providers in count. Not about their particular projects but 
the factors that go into their proformas. Obviously, our fees are one element of that but 
the construction costs, both supplies and labor, and the trend on rents and sales prices so 
that we’re all on a level playing field about how the providers of our housing regard 
feasibility. You know there – most of these developers, you know, were not the financiers 
of their projects. They rely on pension funds or private equity money. I just think it might 
be helpful to all of us to understand the factors that go into their decision making instead 
of just having to live with the result which we do. I feel like we could make more informed 
decision making if we were sensitive to how they look at these issues. So anyways, it’s a 
suggestion and I wonder Director Hillis if you would -- 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure.  In the TAC, to have information, I mean, they were looking at kind of generic projects 
but I mean your point about hearing from developers who are actually in the midst of 
trying to get projects financed and looking up where rents are going and our construction 
costs and fees are a good one. So, yeah. 
 
President Tanner: 
When is the TAC’s report going to come to us when that legislation. Is it still a while… 
 
 Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
The legislation, I mean we can have a hearing on recommendations if you want it in 
advance of the ordinance.   
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 6 of 19 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
The recommendations, I mean the TAC had their final meeting yesterday and so they have 
made their recommendations. 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah. I think that will be a good opportunity to have this discussion. Certainly bring that 
forward and have this discussion there. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
President Tanner: 
The last thing I want to make Commissioners if, were you done, Commissioner Diamond? Is 
around Director Hillis and I attended – was it just last week, the Reparations Task Force? 
So, you may report on that. But one of the outcomes of that I would like to see is us host. I 
would like to talk about having discussion here of their draft recommendation on which I 
believe they were working to finalize this by June of this year, is when there’re, they are set 
to finalized. So, whether it’s before or after or around when they finalized, to have a 
discussion here at this Commission about the recommendations and kind of integrating 
that into our efforts to pursue racial and social equity and taking a look at that. And of 
course we know that we’ve left kind of a trail of breadcrumbs in our Housing Element 
towards their recommendations and so I think it’s good to bring it back here when they 
actually have made their final recommendations. 
 
Laura Lynch, Acting Commission Secretary: 
Thank you. I did want to bring to everyone’s attention that we received a request to 
adjourn today’s hearing in memoriam of Marvis Philips who passed away recently. Marvis 
was an active community member and specifically within District 6.