17. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
18. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION:
•
Draft Minutes for September 28, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Imperial,  Koppel, Moore 
NAYS: 
None 
ABSENT: 
Diamond, Tanner 
19. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Moore: 
I’d like to lead off with some positive comments. We had a beautiful day last Wednesday where we gathered at 
the groundbreaking for the Sophie Maxwell House at Dogpatch Power Plant. And it was a remarkable day not
only because of the weather, the site, the energy of people gathering for some positive event. It is a 108-unit
building, affordable housing, that despite all the doomsday talk we hear indeed is materializing itself.  And I’ll, 
actually, under Director’s Comments, I’ll ask Director Hillis to give us a little bit more detail on the incredible
innovative financing mechanisms that have been used on this project. For those of you who haven’t been there, 
you should all be happy and proud that, it’s nothing, it is not always it doesn’t happen, things do happen, and
this one is a remarkable project to acknowledge.
The second point I’d like to ask is uhm, there’s lots of strange news out there, and last Thursday in The Standard, 
there was a letter published that Mayor Breed sent to all Department heads and that letter implies that there are 
additional budget cuts, major budget cuts expected despite the fact that the overall budget was a lot of pain was 
approved and achieved for reasons probably looking ahead is asking for additional cuts. That is not only
disturbing because we ourselves as a Commission work very hard to support the budget but knowing how
difficult it has been for the Department to really comply. And I will be asking Director Hillis to speak more to
what’s ahead for the Department but also how he can inform the Commission and what was the Commission for 
a reasonable outcome because this is very, very difficult to take at this particular juncture. That was not so
positive but hopefully we can find a positive outcome to this. 
And the last thing is, I was originally tempted to pull one item off Consent and that is with an approval of a
Cannabis facility on Mission Street. And while it is not a facility itself, that made me wonder. It is my concern that 
we need to find new parameters to look at Cannabis retail because if indeed everything else we’re reading about 
the financial strain and lack of success that Cannabis retail has for small entrepreneurial business I feel very hard 
pressed to continue to approve something which I believe does not have a very positive future. I’m going to put 
this out just as  a reminder, ask the Director, the Department, including the Commission to have a conversation 

San Francisco Planning Commission