4. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
5. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for November 16, 2023 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
None 
6. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I wanted to bring everybody’s attention to the Let’s Glow Exhibit downtown. I went to see it last night, not last 
night, the opening night last Friday and it was spectacular. It was drawing all kinds of crowds, people wandering 
from exhibit to exhibit and pausing to eat downtown. Kind of exactly what we have been talking about in terms of 
finding new reasons to draw people downtown. And then on Saturday night, I was in the Union Square area around 
nine o’clock which was packed to the gills with ice skaters and it was equally fabulous and exciting to see that area 
of town. So, shoutout to the organizers both then really encouraged everybody to take advantage of this. The Glow 
Exhibit ends this week. There was a nice article about it in the Chron this morning.  
President Tanner: 
Yeah, I think it’s ‘til the 11th, is that right? I think, yeah because in the weekend it will be up so, definitely happy to 
have good news reports. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to express my absolute delight and reading in the paper that Mission Housing and MEDA were awarded 
the Marvel in the Mission, formally the Monster in the Mission. Affordable housing project with 350 units which 
indeed ups of what originally was supposed under different conditions and I think is a great step in the right 
direction. And I think we should all be really, really happy about that given the fact that I think construction is 
projected to occur or start occurring in the very near future. This will probably the first thing to start taking down 
our obligations on affordable housing.  
President Tanner: 
Yeah, it’s very exciting. Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 7, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 10 
 
7. REMOTE PUBLIC COMMENT 
(Continued from November 16, 2023 Regular Hearing) 
SPEAKERS: 
Georgia Schuttish – Democratic process, virus increasing, keep it through the winter 
Sue Hestor – ADA Accommodations, directives 
Lorraine Petty – Increased accessibility for public comment 
Speaker – Inability to attend in person due to work, virus 
Anastasia Yovanopoulos – Matter of equity, hardship for seniors to attend in person 
ACTION: 
Suspended Remote Public Comment, with exception to reasonable accommodations, 
starting January 1, 2024 
AYES: 
Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner 
NAYS: 
Braun, Ruiz, Moore