8.
Land Acknowledgement 
President Tanner:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 15 
 
9. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for February 16, 2023 – Closed Session 
• Draft Minutes for February 16, 2023 – Regular  
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Ruiz 
 
10. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Well happy Women’s History month everyone. It is already March if you can believe that. 
We just also ended Black History month and on Tuesday I was lucky enough and privileged 
to be able to interview Mayor Willie Brown. So, with all the Planning staff present talking 
about his tenure in San Francisco and some of the changes that he oversaw and definitely 
getting some wisdom and advice. So, it was really quite a treat and great to see all the staff 
there. I think there is a recording, an audio recording that is out there. So, the video is not 
very exciting. I think it’s the side of my head for most of it, but the audio is good. Maybe 
just treat it like a podcast than a video recording. So, that was very exciting and I want to 
thank Director Hillis, who will join us later, for helping to arrange that. And certainly 
something that I think all of us who were present were really excited to be able to be there. 
I did want to ask Ms. Watty, maybe you can pass this on to Director Hillis, to see when we 
can schedule the update on Housing Element implementation. I know there is a lot going 
on and I’ve gotten some questions from members of the public just wondering about 
certain parts of the Housing For All plan and like how that is unfolding. And I’m also 
curious as well, and so I think it could bode a good discussion here along with something 
that Vice President Moore had asked about which is a new legislation in California that is in 
place this year related to Housing and Planning and Land Use so that we can kind of get a 
sense of just other things we might be expecting. So, I’m not sure if that is already 
scheduled or what you all are thinking about. 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure. And I believe AnMarie Rodgers is here and she, I believe, is taking the lead on 
scheduling the hearing so she may have a date already available. But if not, we are close to 
scheduling one? Maybe that’s it. We’re really close to scheduling one. It will certainly be 
early spring. It’s coming up soon and we are all working on it. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. And I’m going to send some of the questions I have gotten. Then can maybe 
even just be answered in Director’s Comments just really quickly in addition to a longer 
discussion. The only other item I wanted to bring up Commissioners, is some discussion 
around design review. This comes from our hearing a few back, just thinking about a lot of 
times we stick to our 5 minutes, at least I stick to our 5 minutes for sponsor presentations. I 
think for the most part it works fairly well and then we ask follow-up questions. But if you 
do see a project coming up that you think the architecture deserves additional time, please 
let me know in advance and we can make sure the sponsor knows, “Hey, you’ll have a few 
more minutes. Please take you know maybe seven minutes to include design discussions”; 
and or, if you forget, and you just realize when the project is here like, “Oh I want to learn 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 15 
 
more”, we can certainly ask for additional time during the hearing even before public 
comment, so if you want to have it be contiguous with the discussion of the project. Just to 
be able to  dive a little deeper into design as well as the community outreach and other 
things that sometimes take up more of the sponsor’s energy. So, just a note there and 
open to other ideas  that folks may have about how we can make sure that we certainly 
hear about the design as well as the other elements that are important to the project. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioner Tanner, just for your and the public’s interest, the Housing Element 
implementation informational update is currently scheduled for April 27th. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
April 27th. Okay, I will probably send some of the questions so we can have them answered 
in the interim and then we’ll look forward to that hearing. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Just briefly, without having a discussion, adding a couple thoughts for design review. In 
the past it was recommended by this Commission and former Commissions to give large 
project applicants an independent element in, during any meeting, to present the design 
even when it is in the process of still being developed so that we familiarize ourselves with 
the challenges and with the opportunities these larger designs allow. For example, if 3700 
California is coming back, which was a very extensively reviewed project, very detailed in 
its design, I think the Commission except for Commissioner Koppel and myself who were 
there, would greatly benefit together with a public to refresh themselves on what the 
issues were, what the challenges were and how we best address them. That would be one 
example. But there are many other large projects and I think it’s in the benefit of the public 
as well as ourselves to help listen, comment early, on rather than just commenting when it 
is almost too late. We really are creating hindrances and delays rather than constructively 
and creatively participating. That would be my recommendation. 
 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Great, thank you for the suggestion. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I want to endorse both of what Commissioners Tanner and Moore said. I was actually here 
for the 3700 project as well too which was one of the first items I heard as a Commissioner. 
But I have noticed recently that we are- that the project sponsors are spending almost all 
of their 5 minutes on their relations with and their interaction with and the response to the 
neighborhood groups and the context. All of which are critical and important but it gives 
the appearance that we are also not that interested in design, that that is secondary. And 
yes, I do think, of course we have the opportunity to ask them questions, but some of them 
spent years and millions of dollars to get to the point where they have a design and I want 
to make sure that our 5-minute limit does not change the way in which they come 
prepared to make the presentation, because I’d like a full on architectural presentation. A 
good example was the incredible Native American Cultural Center that we heard a few 
weeks ago where there, it is a really creative and unusual design and almost none of the 
presentation was on that and it was all around the need for the project. So, I am concerned 
that our 5-minute rule shifts the focus almost entirely to one very important subject, but at 
the expense of another very important subject. And as we go forward with some of these 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 15 
 
projects that we’re going to see in front of us going forward, especially in light of the 
Housing Element, that the design of these housing projects is really important. And so, I 
agree with both of you, that one way there are several ways to handle that. I think a critical 
way is to have an information session early on. I believe that what we did with Stonestown 
is too late in the process. It feels like they are so far along that when they heard our 
comments, they feel like they have done the deal already and that we are slowing them 
down, and that is a very awkward position I think for us to be in as Commissioners, that we 
need to be able to provide our input early enough that they can seriously give it attention. 
And the same with 3700. So, I am just wondering whether or not for projects of a certain 
scale we should be very clear in our instructions, and staff should be clear in their 
instructions to project presenters, that we want to hear about the negotiations and the 
discussions with the neighbors and we really want a presentation on design. And if they 
feel they need 5 minutes, then they should let us know ahead of time so that we can grant 
it because it seems like sometimes people show up and they are about to do a 10-minute 
presentation and we say you’ve got 5 and they are like, “Hey, I thought I had 10” and Mr. 
Ionin says, “No, you’ve got 5 but you can respond to questions”. So, I think they might be 
getting mixed messages and we should just be really clear. But I absolutely believe that 
these larger projects, that the design should very much be part of their primary 
presentation. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah, thank you. Maybe it is something we can add to our Officers meetings as we’re 
discussing projects and staff just being on notice to also bring to our attention, “Hey, this is 
something that we may want to spend more time on or have an informational session on”. 
So, we can join forces and kind of seeking out when we need to use that discretion. Thank 
you all for your comments on that. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I think the CPC Officers meeting is the appropriate venue to vet that. If there are no further 
Commissioner comments, Commissioners, if I may, we had a meeting with the City 
Administrator's Office for additional guidance on remote public participation. So, I guess 
last week or even the week prior, you have indicated to me that we will certainly continue 
the practice of remote public comment. The City Administrator’s Office provided us with 
additional guidance that if we are to continue with remote public comment that we 
establish a time limit associated with it. But that time limit should be consistent 
throughout the entire agenda. They used an example of 20 minutes. I think that is 
extremely short. Even if we were to go for an hour that would be 20 people maximum. And 
their recommendation is that if we were to establish a time limit that we actually adhere to 
it and cut people off who may already be in the queue who haven't had an opportunity to 
speak. This would not apply to quasi-judicial items such as negative declarations that come 
before you, and so the board of appeals which is a quasi-judicial body has already adopted 
the policy that they are simply not going to establish time limits because most the items 
they consider there are appeals, if not all. So, I brought this to the Historic Preservation 
Commission yesterday. We’ve had no issues at the Historic Preservation Commission nor 
do I feel we would have any issues here with remote public comment. They’ve decided to 
not set any time limits. So, I will seek your direction today if you would like to impose any 
consistent time limit. Now this could change from agenda to agenda, but on each agenda 
the time will have to be consistent for every item. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 15 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Could we think about it a little bit more before just jumping in and having opinion? The 
other question I would like to ask you being the leader of the technology here, with the 
new latest setup from a few weeks ago, the pause with you calling on somebody and those 
people responding, that is an awfully long theatrical pause and I am wondering if that 
pause could be shortened. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Well, we’ve successfully gotten away with that today for the first time.  
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Okay. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thanks to the Department of Technology, media services and SFGovTV working 
collaboratively, we have gotten rid of *6 to unmute themselves. So, today we shouldn't 
have that long pause because they need to hear that you are being requested to be 
unmuted, they need to press *6, and then they need to hear that you have been unmuted. 
So, all of that is gone and we’re back to the old way we have been unmuting people and so 
it is simply they are being unmuted and they hear a prompt, you have been unmuted, and 
so that is their indication to begin speaking. So, it should be much smoother now moving 
forward. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Perhaps we could observe today and see if there is an in between pattern without really 
nailing it today. That would be my preference. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah, I would agree. I don't know that I, it’s been fairly smooth. So, it doesn’t seem, I 
wouldn't have a time limit today that I would propose but certainly good to know the 
option and be able to think about it for a little bit. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Yeah, and the City Administrator’s Office will be reviewing this practice moving forward. 
They were asking us to adopt time frames so that there is a consistency across all policy 
bodies but we are far ahead of the game. Many policy bodies have not been conducting 
hybrid hearings. Many policy bodies don't have staff behind the scenes helping them the 
way I do. So, I think it is a very different situation than most, but yeah, so for now I will 
keep status quo. If there is any desire in the future, please let me know and we can 
agendize that then [inaudible] 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah. And we may get busier agendas and that is where it becomes more needed that we 
just have more items. So, we look forward to that day. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Yup. Very good Commissioners. Thank you for that. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 15