2. 
Land Acknowledgement 
 
 
Commissioner Braun: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
3. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for January 5, 2023 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None  
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
President Tanner: 
And I wonder, Director Hillis, the caller for the 1458 San Bruno item talked about just some 
issues of graffiti and wanting some outreach, is there anything we can do about the 
graffiti? I know that’s in Public Works’ territory for enforcing but I just want to see if you 
have any comments or suggestions or anything on that matter. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director 
Yeah. We can certainly check in with DPW and the project sponsor to see what’s going on. 
We can also encourage some, coz we’ve heard about this issue about the community 
meeting may have them reach out to the community and have that meeting. So, we will 
do that. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you. 
 
5. 
Election of Officers:  In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the San Francisco 
Planning Commission, the President and Vice President of the Commission shall be elected 
at the first Regular Meeting of the Commission held on or after the 15th day of January of 
each year, or at a subsequent meeting, the date which shall be fixed by the Commission at 
the first Regular Meeting on or after the 15th day of January each year. 

San Francisco Planning Commission