9.
Land Acknowledgement 
President Tanner:
Thank you. I have asked Commissioner Ruiz, we’re so happy to have you back, to share the
Land Acknowledgement today. And we’ll just give a moment for folks to clear out of the
chamber before you begin but yeah, it’s great to have you here.
Commissioner Ruiz:
Thanks everybody. Happy to be back.
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
10.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for June 29, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial,  Koppel, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Moore 
11.
Commission Comments/Questions
Commissioner Diamond:
Thank you. I want to raise an issue that was brought to my attention by the Divis item we
just approved, I was happy with how we’ve resolved the Divisadero item, so I just didn’t
take it off the Consent, but it raises a broader issue that I think is appropriate for us to think
about going forward. So, as we get this increasing number, the extensions, I believe that
how the property is maintained during this time period where construction is not
occurring, is critically important. In that particular case, the neighbors brought it to our
attention through this Planning Commission agendized item for the extension, and
ultimately a series of agreements were worked out that were enforced, that we will be able

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, July 13, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 6 of 16 
to enforce because they were adopted as Conditions of Approval. So, I think it’s worth 
some discussion, Director Hillis, about how we proceed going forward. I recognize that 
every property is different – some are vacant, some have dilapidated buildings on them, 
some are in better shape. So, how do we, as a matter of course, understand the nature of 
the property before the extension is granted. And it’s particularly pertinent I think that we 
think about this because later in today’s agenda, in conjunction with some of the 
legislation, there is a portion of the legislation that would have us delegate authority on 
extensions to the Planning Department. And so, how do neighbors have notice of what’s 
going on in order to bring it to our attention. I guess I’m thinking that a standard condition 
might be appropriate that we broadly devise to deal with different scenarios but I’m open 
to anything so long as we’re not asking neighbors to live with poorly maintained 
properties while the developer is trying to decide when he or she may move forward. 
President Tanner: 
Great. Thanks for that, Commissioner Diamond. Director Hillis, do you want to respond-- 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I mean I think, and we’ve spoken about this Commissioner Diamond, and I think we 
can look at either a standard condition or a condition we apply on a case-by-case basis for 
these projects. I was thinking about this when I was, as I was walking over here. Divisadero 
was in operation when we approved this project. You know, it’s not just during the 
extension that there were issues. It’s been during this kind of original, initial period of 
entitlement. So, I think we can look internally at either a standard condition or a standard 
condition plus some things we may want to add on for vacant parcels to respond to this 
issue because I know it’s been an issue and saw the response from neighbors of how 
Divisadero and I think we have that issue elsewhere as well. 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Yeah. I just want to make sure that we are not dependent upon neighbors to bring it to our 
attention. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I feel like we should be proactive in understanding this situation on these properties and in 
requiring the project sponsors, you know, to undertake the appropriate maintenance so 
that the adjacent neighbors don’t deal with all the negative impacts of poor maintenance. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And the City’s got, obviously, rules around graffiti abatement and things like that. So, let us 
work with some of our fellow agencies like DPW and DBI and craft either a standard 
condition or a condition we can use in these situations. 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Okay. Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, July 13, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 7 of 16 
President Tanner: 
I would just add my voice to second that discussion as we go forward to make sure 
because a property could be in one condition when we entitle it and change hands and 
things can happen and you know, time goes on. So, certainly looking forward to that. 
Commissioner Braun, I saw you had your hand up, but it went down. Did you want to add 
something or are you alright? 
Commissioner Braun: 
No, I was just going to ask that we, as that standard language is developed, it would be 
helpful to understand to what extent some of this is just the responsibility primarily 
through code enforcement and something that is already kind of in the books. But I am in 
full support of the idea of doubling down on including conditions as well.  
President Tanner: 
Thank you. Great. Shall we do the resolution now for Claudia? Awesome. Well, it is my 
privilege to do a resolution recognizing Claudia Flores for her great work and contributions 
to the Planning Department. I’m going to read just a few parts of this wonderful resolution 
but just suffice it to say I don’t think it fully covers the contributions you’ve made to this 
Department, to this city, and we are just having so blessed to have you on our staff and as 
a part of a leader of this Department. So, really just so grateful to be able to offer just a few 
words recognizing your service here.  
“Whereas Claudia Flores received her graduate degree from Princeton University and her 
undergraduate degree from the University of California Berkeley,  
And whereas Claudia has served the San Francisco Planning Department for 17 years, both 
in the Citywide and Community Equity Divisions, 
And whereas as a mixed-race mestiza female and immigrant, Claudia remained respectful 
towards and anchored in the strength of her ancestors, 
And whereas a resilient and innovative leader, Claudia brought knowledge to challenge 
the Planning Department’s approaches that were harmful to our communities, 
Whereas Claudia was instrumental in the development and adoption of the Centering 
Planning on Racial and Social Equity Resolutions by the Planning Commission and Historic 
Preservation Commission, 
And whereas Claudia has normalized, organized, and operationalized Racial Equity at the 
Planning Department such that the Department can maintain this work beyond any staff’s 
tenure, 
And therefore, be it resolved that the San Francisco Planning Commission and the 
Planning Director express their deepest appreciation to Claudia Flores in recognition of her 
substantial work at the San Francisco Planning Department and extraordinary service to 
our communities of color and low income communities, and for her leadership and 
mentorship of staff and the impact she continues to make in San Francisco and beyond, 
and wishes her every success in her new role at the City’s Office of Racial Equity.” 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, July 13, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 8 of 16 
So, I hope we’ll broke from protocol a little bit just to give Claudia a round of applause. And 
I’ll make space if other Commissioners or other staff would like to say a few words to 
Claudia. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I just want to add my thanks and congratulations. Claudia is moving on to do similar work 
that she’s done for our Department for the City, for the entire City and it’s appropriate and 
we’re going to miss Claudia extremely at the Department and the work she’s done. But 
she’s taking that role on citywide.  And you called out the work she’s directly done like 
MAP22 and our Equity Plan, but I think a lot of the things you are seeing today were taking 
on because of the work Claudia has done whether it’s our Housing Element or our 
Community Equity Division and the work we’re doing in communities. She’s really led the 
way. So, I just want to add to my thanks and appreciation for all her work. And she’s a great 
person. So, we will miss her. 
President Tanner: 
Here, here. 
Miriam Chion: 
I just want to join this thank you and recognize Claudia for her resilience. She started this 
work when things were not that well established, for opening the road and for having 
these delicate conversations with community folks and with staff as well. Thank you. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
First of all, congratulations moving into a different department and also congratulations to 
all the contributions that you have contributed to the Planning Department and to the 
community. Before coming to the Planning Commission, I know more of you as on the 
community side and it is a demonstration of your partnership that you really want to work 
with the community and that speaks a lot to me personally. So, congratulation on your 
next endeavor and Planning Department is going to miss a ton. But you left a lot at the 
same time too. So, congratulations. 
President Tanner: 
Here, here. Wonderful. Claudia, did you want to say anything on your own behalf. You 
don’t have to but just want to give you an opportunity if you would like to. 
Claudia Flores: 
Yes. I had all these plans and then it got continued so I forgot what I was going to say but 
the main thing I want to say is I’m, you know, I’m really from a strong belief that you know 
we just come from our families and our communities, and I just got emotional—so, while I 
appreciate and I take all the accolades, like we really couldn’t do it alone. This work was 
started, the Mission Action Plan, it was the community that asked for it and we just like 
stepped up to serve the community and we had the support of our leadership, formally our 
former director, our current director, same thing Racial Equity Plan, it was a collective staff 
effort. You know I just inherited a baton, and I was proud and happy to continue it. And I 
also just appreciate, I think what kept me in the agency for 17 years is just the people. It’s 
the people that are committed to the city, just dedicated to making San Francisco a better 
place, a livable place, an equitable place. I have appreciated the Commission’s leadership 
and support of staff work and you’ve been charging ahead alongside with staff; let’s try 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, July 13, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 9 of 16 
something risky, let’s try something new, it’s the right thing to do. So, I appreciate the 
thanks, but I think it’s all of our effort. And I’m happy to, some of my new team members 
are here, thank you for all of us to continue this work together. So, thank you. 
President Tanner: 
Well-spoken like a true community builder and I just want to say [inaudible] the role that 
you had played and the leadership [inaudible] 17 years. Sorry my microphone really goes 
in and out.  I don’t know what I said but hopefully you’ve heard some of it. The main point 
is that yes, it’s a collective effort but hopefully you can bask a little bit in your 
accomplishments and we’re so happy you’re not going very far. So, great.