4.
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
5.
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Tanner: 
I’ll start out with a few comments. Certainly want to just acknowledge the violence that happened just yesterday 
in Maine, and certainly thinking of the folks in that community and just hoping for more peace in our country as 
well as in the world. I think at this time, just reminding all of us to perhaps just take whatever reflection time you 
need because there’s certainly a lot happening right now in the world. On a somewhat, maybe lighter note but
still somewhat serious, Covid season is here. RSV and flu season. So, I know for myself, I’m just wearing a mask as
an overabundance of caution for myself. I feel like I’ve been pushing my luck a little bit lately. And so, just invite 
folks to do whatever feels comfortable for you here in the chamber. 
And then, lastly, I know the Policy Practice review, maybe Director Hillis, you’re going to talk about that a little
bit, we were able to receive that, I believe yesterday. Encourage Commissioners to read that. I believe we will
schedule a time to discuss it formally and I would like to just say that I hope that we can, as a Commission or as a 
City, perhaps and in conjunction with the Mayor, author a response if needed, just to accompany the report. 
Certainly it is great to hear what HCD says but also to you know make sure to either to HCD and also
accompanying any public posting of the report, like what is our Department’s response to the review. So those
are my comments for now.
Commissioner Moore: 
I may be the only person feeling that way but having three or four pieces of legislation on one calendar is making 
it quite difficult to work through. Give it the proper time because legislation is not our mainstay of what we
personally or professionally do and it requires a significant amount of attention. I think the Department is giving 
us guidance but the full understanding rests on us. So, I would like to ask that whoever schedules what’s on our 
calendar pays attention to not having too much legislative pieces all at once. I would personally appreciate that 
and I see some nods which perhaps reflects a broader consensus of what the Commission is asking. Thank you. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioner Moore, I can appreciate that concern and certainly acknowledge the impact to today’s agenda.
However, our October 5th hearing, which was cancelled due to Senator Feinstein’s memorial service, the limited 

San Francisco Planning Commission