3.
Land Acknowledgement 
President Tanner:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
Thank you.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 9, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 5 of 8 
4.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for January 26, 2023 – Closed Session
•
Draft Minutes for January 26, 2023 – Regular 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
5.
Commission Comments/Questions
President Tanner:
I want to just call attention to the Mayor’s Executive Directive, which was issued on
Monday, I believe. Thank you, Director Hillis, for sending us that. And I was excited to see
some pretty firm and for some items and very soon and I think within probably the next
year dates for moving forward items on the Housing Element. So, it’s really great to again
have us had it approved last week and then already seeing the Mayor take steps to help
our city organizations and departments get organized to deliver on the Housing Element.
And also coming from the State of the City Address this morning. Just being able to hear
further other adjacent priorities in addition to the Housing Element, reducing our
unhoused population and helping folks exit homelessness, as well as reimagining
downtown. So, certainly a lot of things that knock on our door in terms of priorities for the
entire city. So, we definitely have our work cut out for us. I do wonder about perhaps
scheduling a session at the Commission where we can talk a little bit our role in
implementation and kind of what we might see coming forward. Obviously, there’s a lot of
moving pieces and not something that I hope has a tremendous amount of staff report
writing but an opportunity to have Commissioners weigh in and kind of both what we
might like to see, how we might see items even in our staff reports or just keep track of
what’s going on and be part of the accountability team as the Housing Element is being
implemented. So, open to ideas and what that could look like but I think it would be good
for us to kind of get organized as well and understand our role in the larger
implementation strategy.
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
I think that’s a great idea and we can organize a hearing here. You  have a big role both in
budgeting and allocating resources but also in most of what the mayor called out in the
Housing Element Executive Directive will require a legislation and changes to the Planning
Code. That will come here so we may want to go about giving you what overall calendar
and schedule when you may expect to see those pieces of legislation come. You know,
board members may introduce legislation on their own as well on implementing Housing
Element. So, yeah, absolutely. Happy to have that discussion.
President Tanner:
Great, thank you.
Commissioner Moore:
I’d like to draw attention to the devastating earthquake in Turkey and Syria. The pictures
I’ve seen, particularly reading European newspapers, are so devastating that I only can
think of us here in earthquake prone country to extend our best wishes and support to the
people of Turkey and Syria.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 9, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 6 of 8 
President Tanner: 
Certainly well placed sentiment and I think we all certainly share that. 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thanks, President Tanner. I just wanted to acknowledge my virtual attendance last week 
and this week for the public and potentially staff at the Department who are unaware but I 
am 37 weeks pregnant which means baby could come any day now. And so, I will be 
participating virtually, hopefully for the rest of February and then following February I will 
be going on leave. So I will just say farewell in case something happens within the next 
week or so and will miss everyone on the Commission and will see you all in a couple of 
months after my leave. 
President Tanner: 
Excellent. Congratulations. Again, we’re very excited and thank you for continuing to 
participate.