6.
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Braun:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
7.
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Moore:
I would like to start off by saying it is a beautiful day and it is noticeable that we have many guests arriving in the
City today, next week. Unfortunately, the weather is predicted not to be so positive but I hope that we as the
citizens of this city can help make it easy. There will be inconveniences that are already noticeable. Please carry
your passport card if you live in affected neighborhoods. But overall, I think we have all the ability to be proud of
what we have and show our best side. I hope we will get through this peacefully and successfully and I look forward 
to welcoming the many dignitaries who will be visiting us. Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 9, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 9 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thank you. Yeah, I wanted to mention some of the things we've read and heard around HCD and implementation 
of our Housing Element. I know the Department has been having conversations with HCD. I know we have a 
hearing scheduled on December 7th. And I think my concern is some of the deadlines I’ve seen that are before that 
hearing. And so, I just wonder if you can explain to the Commission and to the public. Have you had a conversation 
with HCD about potentially extending those deadlines to give us some time to respond and implement? 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, and I was going to bring this up in my report as well. So, we're definitely in constant communication with 
HCD as well as internally because some of the recommendations go beyond what we can do as a department and 
a Commission will require the cooperation of other agencies. We’re in conversation with the city attorney and, at 
this point too, we're trying to clarify some of the recommendations where we have questions on those. So, we have 
this hearing on December 7th, we want to come prepared with clarification on many of their required actions so 
we're clear on what HCD is wanting us to do. I do realize that's beyond some of the dates where action is required, 
there are some 30-day deadline that HCD has in their report. But most of those relate to the legislation that you've 
already heard and is moving through the Board of Supervisors process. So, the Mayor's Constraints Ordinance that 
the Mayor and the Board have put forward amendments to, most of HCD’s recommendations for that 30-day 
period relate to that ordinance. So, I don't think it's necessary to have a hearing before them and I think we want 
to get clarification on some of the other required actions they have. We'll certainly, you know, our hope is to get a 
response to HCD right before Thanksgiving on those 30-day action. Again, it will point mostly to the Constraints 
Ordinance and where that is in the process and we'll provide that draft to you. And, you know, the process will work 
as if HCD does not believe we're in compliant in 30 days, there will be a period where we'll be able to correct and 
come into compliance. It won’t be an immediate you’re not in compliance, they'll give us another 30 days to come 
into compliance, if they don't believe we are in compliance. So that's the plan, address those initial 30-day actions 
before those 30 days which happens the Monday after Thanksgiving. Get a response from HCD, again they're 
mostly related to the Constraints Ordinance and come talk to you about the bulk of their recommendations which 
are farther out than 30 days. 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thank you.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, I will notify that you on your next hearing agenda, I will be adding remote public comment. We’ve 
received direction from the Mayor's office to follow the Board’s lead and to cease remote public comment. So that 
will be on the agenda next week to consider.