10. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Tanner:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 7, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 12 
 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
11. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for July 20, 2023 
• Draft Minutes for July 27, 2023 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial,  Koppel, Moore, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
None 
12. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Tanner: 
Well, I just want to start by saying welcome back Commissioners. It’s been a few weeks. Hopefully you all enjoyed 
our recess. I think that is a new experiment for the Planning Commission having a whole month off. Credit to the 
Board of Supervisors for inspiring us to do that. So, hopefully you are all refreshed and excited to get back to work 
here on the business of the Commission again. Very good to see you and I thank you, Commission Secretary, for 
helping us get started. We had a lot of procedural matters in our first, just 30 minutes. So, I think we’re back in 
the saddle as they say. I just want to note that we do have some HVAC upgrades that are happening on the 4th 
floor during this time. It seems like right now our AC is on. I feel it but in incoming hearings there could be some, 
either noise or limited AC. So, hopefully those days miss us somehow on Thursdays. That will be great if that 
could somehow work. But if that does happen in the coming weeks to just be aware of that. So, ventilation could 
be a challenge or be different than normal but at least for today, it seems to be working fine. Hopefully that 
continues to the duration of the hearing.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, I would like to welcome back everyone from the hiatus, summer hiatus. I just would like to comment on 
around, during this weekend I went to the IKEA store downtown and it was great to see or to have IKEA in the 
city. I think that kind of retail is really important to have in the Downtown as part of Downtown Recovery. I think 
we’ve had these kind of discussions of like how to recover downtown. And having those kind of retails that is, 
IKEA is one of those affordable retail spaces. And you can see that there are people coming into those spaces. 
And I think, you know, IKEA is or, you know, that kind of retail that, you know, open to the public in a way that 
what is needed in terms of furniture. Because usually we don’t have that kind of need here in  San Francisco. You 
have to apply online or order online for that. So, it’s great to have that kind of space here in downtown. So, we’ll 
be back there definitely. Okay, that’s all.  
President Tanner: 
Awesome. Did you put anything together when you got home? 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, I will be. I will be. I was just taking pictures and I will be ordering more. 
President Tanner: 
Okay, got it. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I just wanted to welcome everybody back from a long hiatus and I want to give a shout out to San Francisco as 
being a beautiful place to return to.  I was in Europe for 5 weeks where every day in different cities, in different 
countries, was a learning experience. A positive learning experience of how people can deal with the aftermath 
of Covid, and a general sense that we need to hold together to continue making cities work. But what was 
disturbing to me, and I do not want to kind of like, in my own good spirits about what happened is, to read 
international news about an increasing negative reporting on San Francisco. I was very disturbed by that because 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 7, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 12 
 
I think it is completely uncalled for. I think it is made up because coming back, I see the City as being beautiful, 
vibrant with lots of tourist who are curious to experience just how beautiful the city is. And I believe that it is our 
weekly, daily conversation of how we live in the city and how we want to work together, and how we want to 
live together to protect the more positive message. I can go into more details and I would do that with my 
respective Commissioners, share experiences about particular initiatives, about particular innovations. And 
European cities, just like San Francisco, like Grant Street or others, have stores which are papered up and are 
empty. However, there is no doomed feeling to the contrary. The rest of the street, the rest of the piazza, plaza, 
or whatever you want to call it, picks up the spirit about what isn’t. And it’s not just about staring above empty 
stores and complaining about it, but it’s time to forge ways how to continue to use working cities in the most 
positive way. And that is up to each and all of us. That includes-- I’ll save that comment for later, I think Director 
Hillis already know what I was going to say. I think it’s up to all of us and I want to kind of, create that the basis 
to our weekly discussions on what we are doing today. Thank you.             
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thank you, Vice President Moore, for those comments. I feel like that really resonates with me. While we were on 
break, I was reading about the proposed changes at UN Plaza and I also noticed that the Commission and the 
Department received a letter on those changes, and I was just curious if the Planning staff could explain what is 
the Planning Department’s jurisdiction in regards to that.  Is that going to be coming before the Planning 
Commission? 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
No, I mean, is the short answer. There could be some action if there are larger, more substantive and permanent 
changes. I mean, we did an environmental review on the skate park and the changes being made at skate park. 
But the shifting of the Farmer’s Market and the relatively modest, physical improvement to UN Plaza, we don’t 
have a role. I mean, it’s a quirky space and, that it’s not Rec Park, it’s actually DPW property but Rec Park has been 
taking a lead. And, as you know, we’ve got a Civic Center Public Realm plan that, you know, is, got them to use 
around on how to pay for it. So, it’s been a little bit stuck because of that but we, you know, engage the 
community on that and would like to see elements of that implemented and some of them have like the dog run 
that’s there now. So, we’ll continue to work with the community around UN Plaza on those efforts.     
President Tanner: 
Maybe just a follow up, could you share if the public do have comments, should they direct those to DPW or Rec 
Park -- 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
I think Rec Park at this time is the best. 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. Thank you. 
Commissioner Moore: 
One follow up question for Director Hillis. We’ve received a very thoughtful letter from a citizen inquiring about 
bird safe buildings. There was a concern and very thoughtfully deliberated by the Department and by the 
Commission a number of years ago. I would like, for that particular discussion, to come forward again, bring to 
the attention of our current Commission, including the public as we’re building more and more buildings. I 
thought that particular letter hits the spot and we really should be continuing to actually make it a legislative 
requirement. So, if that’s possible, I would like to see a presentation, and for that subject to be brought forward 
again. Thank you. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 7, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 12 
 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
Sure. And there are elements that are already in the code. I mean, I think that happened when I was on the 
Commission but it’s been a long time since we’ve talked about it here so we can do that. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Right. And if you can [inaudible] that letter, I can forward it -- 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
Yeah. It will be great—I don’t think I’ve seen it.  
Commissioner Moore: 
It’s an extremely thoughtful letter and we should follow up on it. 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
Great. Thank you.