9.
Land Acknowledgement 
President Tanner:
Thank you. I have asked Commissioner Ruiz, we’re so happy to have you back, to share the
Land Acknowledgement today. And we’ll just give a moment for folks to clear out of the
chamber before you begin but yeah, it’s great to have you here.
Commissioner Ruiz:
Thanks everybody. Happy to be back.
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
10.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for June 29, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial,  Koppel, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Moore 
11.
Commission Comments/Questions
Commissioner Diamond:
Thank you. I want to raise an issue that was brought to my attention by the Divis item we
just approved, I was happy with how we’ve resolved the Divisadero item, so I just didn’t
take it off the Consent, but it raises a broader issue that I think is appropriate for us to think
about going forward. So, as we get this increasing number, the extensions, I believe that
how the property is maintained during this time period where construction is not
occurring, is critically important. In that particular case, the neighbors brought it to our
attention through this Planning Commission agendized item for the extension, and
ultimately a series of agreements were worked out that were enforced, that we will be able

San Francisco Planning Commission