4.
Land Acknowledgement 
President Tanner:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
5.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for February 23, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT : 
Ruiz, Koppel 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 9, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 13 
 
 
6. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you all. I just want to bring to your attention an email that, I believe you received 
today, inviting us to a training for Equity Minded Decision Making for Commissioners. 
There are two sessions. They are identical sessions so you should choose one session to 
attend. You don’t need to go to both. Wednesday, May 3rd, from 9:00 am to noon and 
Thursday, May 18th from 9:00 am to noon. These are virtual sessions so it will be held 
online. So, please let Jonas know if you would like to attend and the Department will make 
sure we can arrange for that. There is a limit to each sessions so if you’re interested, 
probably sign up sooner than later.  
 
  
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Indeed. And this is sort of a follow up. I believe Commissioners Moore and Koppel already 
attended an equity training.  
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Correct. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
So, it would probably be unnecessary for you to go to this one. But if, again, if you decided 
to, I’m not telling you not to. But it’s really geared, the invitation is more for our newer 
Commissioners. 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Great. Thank you. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I just wanted to give a shout out to the entities that organized the “Free Tulip Giveaway” in 
Union Square on Saturday. I happened to be in that area for reasons unrelated to the “Free 
Tulip Giveaway” and was just astonished by the amount of joy that was in Union Square. 
Not only were people lined up 5 or 6 deep entirely encircling the square in order to get 15 
free tulips, but everywhere I walked downtown people were walking around with 
bouquets of tulips. And this was in damp wet weather clearly lighting up the spirit.  The 
restaurants were packed, the stores were packed. And it seemed that it was worth bringing 
it to everybody’s note because we just had a presentation on Downtown and how one of 
the ways we need to think about downtown is how we use events in order to attract 
people who will then shop hopefully, or have a coffee, and Saturday was like the most 
perfect example of how that could actually work. And just personally, it was just so much 
fun to see Union Square alive and vibrant and filled with very very happy people with their 
bouquets of tulips.   
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Wonderful. Thank you for bringing that to our attention. And yeah, that was so wonderful. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Another example for civic cohesiveness for something that brightens your day, I listened to 
the Historic Preservation meeting on March 1st and there was the remarkable presentation 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 9, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
on New Deal Historic Context Statement 1933 – 1943. And I hope that this Commission will 
very carefully listen to that statement. And if Secretary Ionin would be so kind, have these 
Commissioners receive a copy of the report. It is inspirational what the city did at that time, 
what the resources are. And I think we all should organize a tour and experience that 
together.  Because those are the small elements mostly, we don’t know about them which 
creates the civic cohesiveness that we need at this time when things seem very weak and 
very afraid. So, I strongly encourage you and my kudos to Historic Preservation. It was a 
remarkable day when this particular thing happened. 
 
President Tanner: 
That’s great. And I think last week when they reported this, they said it was so good that it 
should be made into a book, the report so.  
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Indeed. 
 
President Tanner: 
You rarely hear that about things that are staff report items. So, I think I’ll look forward to 
reading that.  
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
President Tanner, as you added, if you listen to the presentation, there was also the first 
building for Historic designation which relied on racial and social equity. That was the first. 
That is 2041 Larkin Street, a church around the corner from where I live and I immediately 
ran down there to look at all took carefully listened to the history. That was the first for 
Historic Preservation. I hope that we can follow quickly with doing something similar.     
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
That’s wonderful. Thank you, Commissioner Moore. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I’ll just suggest that if you’d like to receive a hard copy, we’ll be happy to print it out for 
you. It is already available online through the agenda from the Historic Preservation 
Commission. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
 
Which we don’t have. If you could send the link that would be helpful. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Certainly.