2.
Land Acknowledgement
Commissioner Ruiz:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of 
the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As
the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush 
Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the caretakers of this
place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As guests, we
recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish
to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and Relatives of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as First Peoples.
3.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for January 12, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
4.
Commission Comments/Questions
Commissioner Moore:
I have a question. We are executing the Housing Element. We will have to look for sites that 
are opportunity sites for land banking. Today and on February 23rd, we have parking lots by
where we are extending the use of parking for another five years. Is the department able to

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 26, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 11 
 
look at these sites prior to asking the Commission to guarantee these extensions and what 
criteria are we using to do so? 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
So, do you want us to, excuse me, include that on our analysis when talk about this -- 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Yeah. I think it would be interesting for the Commission to understand because we are here 
to support Consent but without having really your metrics to understand why you’re doing 
it and what is the background, including extending it to for more than five years would be 
of interest. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
Okay. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
 
Thanks. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. Commissioners, I just want to first, start on two kind of not 
necessarily Planning related notes. First, Happy Lunar New Year to everyone and hopefully 
folks are out celebrating the Year of the Rabbit and enjoying themselves. And Perhaps on a 
more serious note, I myself was in Monterey Park actually on Saturday, in the daytime 
enjoying the Lunar New Year festival, and then that evening there was this shooting at the 
dance hall there. So, I just want us to take a moment to recognize the victims of the shooting 
in Monterey Park, in San Mateo County, in Half Moon Bay and also in Oakland. Not the way 
we want to start out the year but certainly something that’s present in our community, in 
our society. So, I just want us to pause and to take a few moments of silence in honor of the 
victims as well as the survivors, their families and their friends and really our entire 
community that is suffering at this time. So if we could just pause for a moment, I’ll 
appreciate it. Thank you all for taking that time.