5. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
6. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for November 30, 2023 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner  
7. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Over the weekend, there was an article in the Chron about a property owner who is, went through a lot of process 
to get his deck approved. Um, and I wondered if Director Hillis you want to comment on the process he went 
through and whether that's typical and, you know, the role Planning Department tries to play and expediting. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I mean, so it was a variance, right? He needed a variance because the existing building is built into the 
required rear yard. So, to expand that with a deck, he needed a variance for that project. I think where things got 
kind of off on the wrong track is he also needed a 311, he had to notify neighbors with his building permit. Those 
weren't combined. So, he did the variance first and then did the 311 notice. Normally we suggest that those 
things happen at the same time, so there aren't kind of two areas where you need to notify neighbors. In this 
case, I don't know the details on why that didn't happen, but that didn't happen in this case. Whether it was the 
project sponsor or there was some miscommunication on our part. But normally those travel together, so there's 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 15 
 
only one, at one time you'd have to make that notice. You also have to do a pre-application notice. And that's 
our Commission policy, which I think we're looking at to as a result of the Constraints Ordinance being passed. 
So, we'll have more details on that in the upcoming year too. 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
And I would just, one other thing I'll add on that actually, starting January 1, as we're rolling out implementation 
of complying with AB 1114, those will inherently always be merged together without the applicant having to 
know or ask to do that. It'll just be an automatic matter, of course, that we’ll conduct those notifications 
concurrently. 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I'm delighted to hear that. I don't feel like we should be in a position where anybody, especially individual 
property owners, should feel like they need to hire permit expediters to understand the rules that it should. We 
as a Department and staff should be giving guidance and assistance to people who are trying to navigate our 
processes and delighted to hear that starting in January, it's going to be a little simpler anyway. 
President Tanner: 
Thank you. My only comment would just be to note, obviously it's our last hearing of 2023, it’s been quite a year 
for the City, for the Department, for the Commission. I just want to thank staff, thank our Secretary, thank all of 
you folks who have brought projects or called in or come in person to testify and to give feedback on our project. 
So, looking forward to another good year next year, but thank you all for your service. And thank you again for 
just making it a really, I think a pleasant way, for my experience, to give back to the City to serve on this, this 
Commission with all of you. So, thank you again.