9.
Land Acknowledgement 
Commissioner Imperial:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
19.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for March 2, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT: 
Ruiz 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 15 
 
11. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
On February 18th earlier this year there was a very interesting and worrisome article in the 
Chron describing non-ductile concrete buildings and the large number of them that we 
have in San Francisco, similar to some of the buildings that collapsed in Turkey and Syria. It 
went on to describe a small working group that has been formed and mentioned Brian 
Strong, who's the Chief Resilience Officer, indicated that SPUR was looking at this, incited 
David Friedman, who's a retired extremely well-respected seismic engineer. And so, you 
know, one might say, “Okay, the City's working on this”. What is the interest of the 
Planning Commission in this?”, and I believe that our interest is twofold, which is why I am 
hoping, Director Hillis, that we could have a presentation at the Commission about the 
work of this working committee. And so, the reason I think that it's important to us is, on 
every project we approve, we have to make section 101.1(b) findings that essentially say 
that, you know, in an earthquake we’ll preserve life. So, essentially the life safety standard - 
can people get out of the buildings. And we tend to do it [inaudible] but I think we ought 
to step back and be thinking about whether in fact, the building code allows us, you know, 
compliance with the building code is enough for us to say that. And secondly, and more 
importantly, when those 101.1(b) findings were initially promulgated, I think they might 
have been part of Prop M in the 1980’s. The focus was on “life safety, getting out of 
buildings”. And I think all the work that we've been doing, especially recently about 
resiliency and recovery, I think raises the question about “is getting out enough?”. Are we, 
you know, are we building to a standard that allows people to quickly move back into the 
buildings and re- occupy. If we've learned anything from the pandemic, it is that we can't 
simply isolate problems and say they are someone else's issue. I mean, we could have said 
Covid or that's a DPH issue and look at the extraordinary impact it's having on us 
downtown and raises questions about how we approach this as a Planning Department 
and Planning Commission. So I feel like it would be appropriate for us to just be updated as 
to what the work is of this working committee and wondered if we could get a 
presentation. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you for bringing this item up, Commissioner Diamond. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, I mean, we'll definitely work with the officers to schedule a hearing. We are 
participating in the working group. Ms. Watty is a participant as well as Kelly Wong from 
our Enforcement Division. It's mostly being driven by DBI but happy to ask Brian Strong 
and others to do a presentation. Maybe we do it at the Joint DBI hearing that we're having. 
So we can, we can work with President Tanner on that.  
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah, I think that'd be a great time.  
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Very much appreciate it, thank you.  
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 15 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
If I may add one comment without making it a discussion, San Francisco is at the cutting 
edge of seismic engineering, always has been. Obviously, Japan is, the leader in world 
technology. However, we are just right there and throughout the many, many years that 
San Francisco has pursued high-rise buildings and being ahead of the seismic code 
including creating it, this article I think is somewhat untimely because it catches people off 
guard at the time when fearmongering and somewhat misleading information is creating 
anxiety in people's minds. Throughout the time that I have practiced in San Francisco, 
which is 1970 and through today, including everything that went into seismic retrofit etc., 
the idea of concrete pre-1979, I think buildings has always been on the expert’s mind. And 
it isn’t the time. It is not just buildings; it is also bridges and other structures which fall into 
that category of very careful evaluation. So, while I strongly believe an update would be 
necessary, I want to just assure this Commission and whoever else listens to our 
presentation here, that there is nothing to be worried about only to the extent that we 
need to stay ahead of the subject matter, and that is what the city has been doing since 
the early 70’s when these buildings for the first time came on the radar. So I just want to 
put some kind of quietness to how we go about listening to it. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I just want to bring up about what happened I think in the last few days about the collapse 
of Silicon Valley Banks. And perhaps there are some, well, we don't know yet, but I don't 
want to create fear at the same time but you know. But there was an article about how the 
collapse of Silicon Valley Bank also affected the upcoming projects for 100% affordable 
housing itself. And I, and it seems like there are, of course still going to be part of 
negotiations. So, as the week of this kind of like what's happening in terms of the banking 
system, I'm also worried about what's, how it affects our housing element goals in terms 
of, of course, the 100% affordable housing, the 46,000. Of course we cannot predict yet of 
what's really going to happen. These are in the regional level but I'm wondering if, as we 
are looking to financial feasibilities of course also of inclusionary housings, how are we -- 
maybe too early to describe yet, of what's really happening, but I also, I just want the 
Planning Department to be on radar when it comes to the financial feasibility of the 
inclusionary as well as the 100% affordable housing and also other market rate 
developments. And how will that affect the housing element and how will that, also the 
state, react in this kind of what's going on in the banking system itself. So, I don't know if, 
Director Hillis, if that's something being, trying to just think about right now or, you know,  
I think again, we don't know yet how's it going to ripple, but yeah.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And definitely the most direct impact was to some affordable housing projects that had 
the bank as the lender. So, we can get an update from MOHCD to the extent there's 
something important to bring here to the Commission, we can do that as well. 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah. I think just even just knowing because I think we're just even though it's not our job, 
we were, we're hopeful every time we see affordable housing and there's so many projects 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 15 
 
that are happening. And so we'll be just curious to follow that as it kind of makes its way 
through the solution I guess at the bank and resolving of those assets. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Hillis, there were one, two, three, four, five project mentioned, all of which has 
been in front of this Commission. That is at 360 43rd Avenue, 180 Jones, 78 Haight, 55 
Cravath which I don't remember that’s actually Treasure Island, which is not in front of this 
Commission, and 234 Van Ness. Could you at some point, not at this very moment, give us 
an update what the direct implications are on any of these. Some of them are apparently 
already in construction and waiting for tenant improvements. So we are very close on 
some, we are a little bit further away on others. But for us to get a bearing in what is really 
quite a few units here, would be very important.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And definitely MOHCD is working with those project sponsors to figure out if there's an 
impact on the project if there's a delay. So, we can get that information from them and -- 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
It's close to 500 units. Well I just kind of like quickly do the math here and that’s a lot. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
We'll give you an update. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you.