8.
Land Acknowledgement 
President Tanner:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 29, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
9. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for June 15, 2023 – Joint hearing with HPC 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted as amended 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial,  Koppel, Moore, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
Ruiz 
 
10. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to share the enthusiasm I heard in the Board of Supervisors’ meeting the other 
day. St.  Anthony has purchased the Oasis Inn, a family housing shelter during COVID and 
extended it to become a permanent housing shelter in collaboration with the Providence 
partnership.  Thank you to the activism of the community, thank you to Supervisor Preston 
and everybody else who participated in it. It’s a remarkable achievement and it shows 
what real good activism can achieve. The other thing which disturbed me a little bit, and 
I'm sure everybody has been reading about it, that the City of San Francisco is reclassifying 
its low-income level to be a $105,000 a year. I think that will put an extra burden on us to 
determine of how to think about housing. That’s all. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. I just wanted to thank Planning staff. Last week we had a 
tour of the Planning Department and kind of a little overview of what the Planning career, 
the Planning field is like for the Presidio Bay Scholarship program. So, I want to give extra 
shout out to Charles, Trent, Ryan, Megan, Malik, Xinyu, Edgar Kurt, Rogelio, Claudine, Joe, 
Alex, and Wesley. Also to Julian, to Elena, to Deborah, to Rich, to all the staff who made it 
possible and the students had a really great time. We had a group of students both rising 
seniors and early college age folks. So, learning about the real estate field, including the 
Planning profession. So, thank you all for making time for them.