6.
Land Acknowledgement 
Commissioner Imperial:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
7.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for February 9, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
8.
Commission Comments/Questions
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:
If there are no comments and questions from the Commission, if you would indulge me
just for one moment Commissioners, as of March 1st, the Mayor's office and the state and
everybody is lifting all the Covid restrictions and Brown Act relaxations. And so, to remind 
you that as of March 1st, you will need to appear in person unless you have submitted a
request to DHR for a disability reasonable accommodation. If you have not received that
authorization from the Department of Human Resources, then you will need to appear in
person and remote participation in these meetings will no longer be available to you for
any reason unfortunately. Even though we have the technology. Furthermore, you have
the right as a policy body to elect to no longer receive public comment remotely, except 
for a disability request for reasonable accommodation. So, you all may direct me to no
longer provide that access through Webex or phone and for public comment if you so
choose. If  I don't hear anything from you, I will assume that we will remain with the status
quo given that people have become quite accustomed to it. I do believe the Mayor's office
in coordination with the City Administrator's office and the Board of Supervisors will be
issuing direction to all policy bodies and Commissions such as ours, for consistency. But 
until we hear that, I suggest we just sort of move along as we have been.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 23, 2023 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
      Page 5 of 9 
President Tanner: 
Yes, certainly. I do see some hands up. And I’ll just say on the comment of the remote 
public access, I think it has been very successful and I don't think we’ve had, I mean 
obviously sometimes the technology has challenged us, but for the most part it has been 
very effective, and sometimes you can't hear what people are saying, some people 
mumble, TV is on the background, but not really any problems from it. And if it enables 
people to give their comments, I hope that we can continue that practice. And again, 
thank you and your staff for facilitating that and also SFGov and other technology who 
help support the effort. And I know it was not easy to get going but it’s running very 
smoothly from -- at least from our perspective but I literally have to push none of the 
buttons and make any of it go. So, thank you again for making it happen.  
Commissioner Moore: 
I would fully support what President Tanner just said. Indeed, this is a public forum and I 
think we have been very successful in inviting public comment and really making 
ourselves available to be transparent and accessible. That was not actually the reason why 
I was pressing my button. I wanted to remind staff and repeat my request to have a 
discussion on how we are extending the use of parking lots. I would like to see some policy 
including what are the time frames we are allotting. I hear 2 years, 5 years, 3 years. In some 
cases, I see us doing it repeatedly over quite a few years and I think we need to look at land 
resource in a slightly different way. That said, I would like a follow up discussion with staff, 
some background and encourage the rest of my Commissioners to support that as an idea.  
Thank you.  
President Tanner: 
I am certainly supportive of that. Thanks, Commissioner Moore. 
Commissioner Imperial. 
Yeah, I would -- in terms of the remote access, yes, I would also support that. I believe, and 
there are some discussions in other committees, I believe in the the Rules Committee, 
where people with disabilities and seniors having come to the City Hall is, can be 
challenging. So, I think having that option of remote access for public hearing should be 
still open. And I do support what Vice President Commissioner Moore in terms of the 
parking spaces. In terms of, again, as we’re trying to remind ourselves of Housing Element 
and what, you know, again, in terms of investing on or looking into the sites that we have 
and how to identify this and looking into as well an extension of those why, how can we, 
the Planning and also perhaps in other city agencies could also see these parking spaces in 
a more productive that align our goals with the Housing Element.