3. 
Land Acknowledgement 
 
 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 25, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 8 
 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
4. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 23, 2023 
• Draft Minutes for April 27, 2023 
• Draft Minutes for May 4, 2023 
• Draft Minutes for May 11, 2023 – Joint with Health Commission 
• Draft Minutes for May 11, 2023 – Joint with Building Inspection Commission 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
Ruiz 
 
5. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, I would like to bring up, as I think we're all aware, that as of now AnMarie 
Rodgers have left the Planning Department. I'm wondering about the hiring process for 
the next Citywide Director and as you know, I do consider the Citywide Department as a 
very important integral part of the Planning. And as we are also looking into the Racial and 
Social Equity, in terms of also in the leadership position of the Planning Department as 
well. I do think that we do need to have someone who is a person of color in this, but of 
course this is going to be a hiring process that I think I'll be interested to be part of, if there 
is such. So, so I just would like to bring that and also for other Commissioners, any opinions 
on this. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Great, thank you. Director Hillis, do you have any comments or insight into the hiring 
process or what you could share with us now. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. So, what I also wanted to let you know, I invited AnMarie to come to a future meeting 
next week or the following week, just so we can properly thank her for her work with the 
Department, which, you know, I've said to others, like AnMarie was kind of the soul of the 
Planning Department and she's done great work both leading our Legislative team and 
then over the last few years, leading the Citywide team and you've obviously had 
experience with her here. She took a new job with the City at Treasure Island as the Deputy 
Director. So, certainly want to congratulate her on that promotion and role. But totally 
agree with Commissioner Imperial. It's a huge position that we need to be thoughtful in 
filling. I certainly want your input, staff's input, especially the staff that work in the 
Citywide division, in the hiring process. So more to come on that. We're working with our 
DHR team, our HR team and AnMarie in kind of developing the job description, and we'll 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 25, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 8 
 
put that out for review. But agree that it's a critical decision and would love to have a 
subset of you all kind of reviewing and talking to applicants.  
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Great. And especially maybe when we get the posting, we can share with our networks as 
well to help get the pool to be as deep as we can, and as diverse as we can. And certainly if 
Ms. Rodgers can come back whether it's next week or the following week. And if not, we 
can just, you know, have an informational on Treasure Island. We'll have her come back at 
a new capacity and tell us what's going on over there. And then if we can, Jonas, make sure 
we have a proclamation. I don't know if we did that for her or if the Department already, 
but if we could do something on behalf of the Commission, that'd be great when we know 
she's coming. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Exactly. Yeah.