17. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
18. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION:
•
Draft Minutes for September 28, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Imperial,  Koppel, Moore 
NAYS: 
None 
ABSENT: 
Diamond, Tanner 
19. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Moore: 
I’d like to lead off with some positive comments. We had a beautiful day last Wednesday where we gathered at 
the groundbreaking for the Sophie Maxwell House at Dogpatch Power Plant. And it was a remarkable day not
only because of the weather, the site, the energy of people gathering for some positive event. It is a 108-unit
building, affordable housing, that despite all the doomsday talk we hear indeed is materializing itself.  And I’ll, 
actually, under Director’s Comments, I’ll ask Director Hillis to give us a little bit more detail on the incredible
innovative financing mechanisms that have been used on this project. For those of you who haven’t been there, 
you should all be happy and proud that, it’s nothing, it is not always it doesn’t happen, things do happen, and
this one is a remarkable project to acknowledge.
The second point I’d like to ask is uhm, there’s lots of strange news out there, and last Thursday in The Standard, 
there was a letter published that Mayor Breed sent to all Department heads and that letter implies that there are 
additional budget cuts, major budget cuts expected despite the fact that the overall budget was a lot of pain was 
approved and achieved for reasons probably looking ahead is asking for additional cuts. That is not only
disturbing because we ourselves as a Commission work very hard to support the budget but knowing how
difficult it has been for the Department to really comply. And I will be asking Director Hillis to speak more to
what’s ahead for the Department but also how he can inform the Commission and what was the Commission for 
a reasonable outcome because this is very, very difficult to take at this particular juncture. That was not so
positive but hopefully we can find a positive outcome to this. 
And the last thing is, I was originally tempted to pull one item off Consent and that is with an approval of a
Cannabis facility on Mission Street. And while it is not a facility itself, that made me wonder. It is my concern that 
we need to find new parameters to look at Cannabis retail because if indeed everything else we’re reading about 
the financial strain and lack of success that Cannabis retail has for small entrepreneurial business I feel very hard 
pressed to continue to approve something which I believe does not have a very positive future. I’m going to put 
this out just as  a reminder, ask the Director, the Department, including the Commission to have a conversation 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 19, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 15 
about how we are potentially creating long term vacancies by allowing uses but at this moment are not filling 
any vacancies. I’ll leave it with that.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just on the financing of the 100% affordable project, I believe it was our first project where we’re using recycled 
bonds. It’s not exactly the term I’m totally familiar with but I think it’s using past allocations where bonds are 
paid off and kind of reissuing affordable housing bonds. And it is also, you know, this was 100% affordable 
project required under the DA but amazing that they started with that project as their first project to break 
ground. So, I agree with you Commissioner Moore, it’s great to see this project moving forward when we’re 
hearing elsewhere that a lot of projects are infeasible.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Miss [inaudible] here actually volunteered to give us a presentation on the details that may inspire other people- 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
Commissioner Moore: 
She deserves a credit together with Director Shaw and most likely Ms. Denise Phillips.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. And we’ll talk about, we’re going to come talk to you I believe in the New Year about the findings that our 
Affordable Housing Leadership Council is making and the recommendations they’re going to make on how we 
get to the 46,000 units of affordable housing we’re being asked to build under our Housing Element. And that 
certainly will be a strategy we talked about. So, we can incorporate it in that discussion as well. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Great. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Budget wise, it’s a tough year for the City and the Department. Fees are down significantly even from the levels 
that we cut them, because we did take cuts to our fees or we anticipated less revenue this year than we were 
budgeting in prior years but we’re not hitting those targets you know, and I think we’ve been lagging about a 
million to a million and a half in fee revenue from what we’re budgeted. So, if that continues, that is a significant 
$10 million hole in our budget. The Mayor’s Office did give us a target of about 350 thousand dollars, we’re 
meeting that by cutting two vacant positions. They’re funded but vacant. I mean we think that’s not going to be 
a big problem but next year as we look to the budget, we do foresee some, a tough budget year in both because 
the general fund is not meeting their revenue targets and nor are we with our fee revenues. So, definitely a lot 
more to come on that. 
Commissioner Moore: 
So, you feel comfortable that you have reached a general understanding that will not impair our current 
program- - 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
For this year. 
Commissioner Moore: 
From the emphasis in particular, the aspects of what we’re doing. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure, yes. For this year. But I think we may have to make some tough choices next year. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 19, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 15 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you very much. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yup. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you for that. So, I also have one to bring out. I was informed by one of the community members about 
that right now, I understand that the Planning Department is doing community engagements about the 
Planning Code audits. I’d like to hear, to give us updates on what’s going on in that. And also there were some 
conversations from the community members about how the conversation go in the Planning Code audits on 
when it’s being tried to base on the racial and social equity lens. So, perhaps that is something also we need to 
look into and perhaps if the community engagement team can provide us an information as to how those 
conversations are going. So that at least the Commissioners, we are knowledgeable as to what are the feedbacks 
from the community members themselves and how our team is also focusing on the racial and social equity. So, 
that is something that hopefully we can have a discussion with. And I guess my question on that Planning Code 
audits, what is the timeline for that?  
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Hi Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning. We are, in terms of the Planning Code audit, just a couple of points I 
can give you, I can’t go super deep into the weeds but we are wrapping up our contract with Gensler. We had a 
consultant who is helping us sort of structure this approach and figure out sort of what our game plan was for 
how we are going to approach this issue in general. So, we’re wrapping up our contract with them and their final 
deliverables with us. Our effort is 100% based in racial and social equity. So, that is the exclusive lens that we’re 
using for this effort. There is sort of no other aspect to this effort. So, it is entirely an RSE effort. I know our core 
team that we have working on it, where we have representation from our Community Equity division as well as 
from Current Planning have had a series of community meetings with a lot of different groups of folks. I don’t 
know everyone who’s been involved to get but we’ve done a fair amount of community outreach on that and 
we’re going to be pulling forward shortly, I would say in the next several months. Sort of our first round of 
recommendations. And so, we will for sure be bringing that to the Commission, both with an overview of how 
we’re kind of approaching this, again it is a new thing for us. But how we’re approaching it and sort of that 
framework and tool kit that we’re developing, our first set of recommendations. But we do and we’re planning. 
You’ll see this particularly in the Current Planning budget moving forward for next year that we’re intending this 
to be an ongoing effort. We’re in the same way that we make Planning Code clean up effort over the years. We 
kind of always have a package that we bring to you. We’ll similarly be bringing a sort of recurring suggestions for 
amendments to the Planning Code through an RSE audit lens so that you  know we’re doing our first batch to 
kind of more salvage the framework and give you kind of a taste of here are some of the suggestions that we’ll 
have but we see this as being a really almost never-ending effort to some degree. So, hopefully that gives you 
sort of a little ten thousand feet but I would say certainly before the end of the fiscal year but likely I would 
anticipate probably quarter one, we’ll have some sort of updates that we’ll be able to bring to the Commission. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you very much for that update. And also one thing that I actually don’t want to pull out from the Consent 
Calendar but I feel like it’s, you know, looking into it that was justified. However, it’s about the laundromat and 
my only, I think that’s item 1550 Waller I believe, yeah. So, while I was reading the packet in itself, and I think it’s 
because the way we try to gather data in terms of the laundromat services around the neighborhood and we 
base it on the services or businesses that is still intact with that neighborhood.  
From the last discussion that we had or the last you know, there are trends where old buildings are incorporating 
laundry services as well. I’m wondering if we can add that in the packet in itself in terms of rental old buildings 
are actually incorporating laundry services. The idea is that we need to be proactive or I feel the Planning 
Department need to be active in terms of gathering data for services that is still considered you know useful in 
the neighborhood. Because when I look into the, of course, the packet inform how many laundry service 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 19, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 11 of 15 
businesses are around the area but it’s good for us to have an assessment of how are these business or how are 
these services are trending at this point.  
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
And what I would just say on that, we really look at this. Some of the data is easy enough to provide you and 
some are a little more difficult. So, for new construction projects for example, you’ll notice that a standard 
condition of approval on housing projects is that we are mandating onsite laundry facilities. Precisely for this very 
issue right. We want to make sure that the new projects that we’re approving moving forward have onsite 
laundry, knowing that standalone laundry facilities continue to be economically challenged.  Where we don’t 
have great access to information is for existing buildings where they just are adding laundry facilities. Oftentimes 
those might just require a plumbing permit. Those things don’t always come to the Planning Department. It’s 
not a data point that we always have clearly identified as we are adding “X” number of laundry services or laundry 
services as a whole. So, it’s going to be a little trickier for us to be able to identify what old buildings are just 
adapting to add those facilities but certainly for new construction that’s something that we do see and we are 
mandating moving forward.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
I guess, probably a separate conversation with the team but yeah, thank you for adding that. 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Yeah, absolutely. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If there are no other questions and comments, Commissioners, if you would indulge me for one moment. I 
wanted to advise you that I’ve received word from Building Management here in City Hall that the APEC 
Conference starting November 11th and lasting that week, will likely impact hearings in City Hall. So, I am hoping 
that we don’t need to cancel our November 16th hearing. I know the recommendation is for Commissions to 
cancel  their hearings that week due to limited access to City Hall. But there appears to be an opportunity to start 
our November 16th hearing earlier at 10:00 am and maybe leave before the building is closed to members of the 
public. And I’m still investigating that. If we can have a hard stop possibly at 3:00 or 3:30 and vacate the building. 
So, just be advised and hopefully if you could take a look at your calendars now and see if 10:00 am would work 
for you on November 16th.  
Also, I don’t want to steal Mr. Starr’s thunder but the Board of Supervisors interestingly enough voted to cease 
their remote public participation for the time being anyway with exception to those persons requesting advance 
reasonable accommodations. That does not affect us or any other Commission for that matter. We can continue 
remote public comment until such time you all decide that you no longer want to participate or provide that 
form of participation to members of the public. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Secretary Ionin, would it be appropriate for you to give a little bit more background of why is that the Supervisor 
decided that. I happened to hear into the meeting and - - 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Well, yes. They, bit of a knee-jerk reaction to one hearing where they received inappropriate public comment, 
antisemitic and profanity laced comments. It was one hearing. Again knock on wood, I think we’ve been 
extremely fortunate here at the Planning Commission where we haven’t had issues like that. But, if they we to 
arise, I would simply mute them and move on. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Profanity is not completely absent from any other meetings and we have been lucky not to have that and I know 
that you would call it. It is sometimes very difficult to listen to when people in public service is being bombarded 
with insults, which by choice of words are completely inappropriate. So again, this is delusion and they can 
express that but they do not have to do it in the form that they do. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 19, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 12 of 15 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I have come quite accustomed to insults, Commissioner Moore. Unfortunately.