6.
Land Acknowledgement 
Commissioner Imperial:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
7.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for February 9, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
8.
Commission Comments/Questions
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:
If there are no comments and questions from the Commission, if you would indulge me
just for one moment Commissioners, as of March 1st, the Mayor's office and the state and
everybody is lifting all the Covid restrictions and Brown Act relaxations. And so, to remind 
you that as of March 1st, you will need to appear in person unless you have submitted a
request to DHR for a disability reasonable accommodation. If you have not received that
authorization from the Department of Human Resources, then you will need to appear in
person and remote participation in these meetings will no longer be available to you for
any reason unfortunately. Even though we have the technology. Furthermore, you have
the right as a policy body to elect to no longer receive public comment remotely, except 
for a disability request for reasonable accommodation. So, you all may direct me to no
longer provide that access through Webex or phone and for public comment if you so
choose. If  I don't hear anything from you, I will assume that we will remain with the status
quo given that people have become quite accustomed to it. I do believe the Mayor's office
in coordination with the City Administrator's office and the Board of Supervisors will be
issuing direction to all policy bodies and Commissions such as ours, for consistency. But 
until we hear that, I suggest we just sort of move along as we have been.

San Francisco Planning Commission