5.
Land Acknowledgement 
Commissioner Imperial:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula.
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as
First Peoples.
6.
Consideration of Adoption:
•
Draft Minutes for January 19, 2023
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
7. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I just want to make a few comments. We signed the Housing Element and have submitted 
it to the state. And I understand we got a certificate from HCD that makes it really official 
that we got the Housing Element adopted. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Correct. They sent us that Wednesday morning. They officially certified the Housing 
Element. So, we have a Housing Element that is in effect.  
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Awesome. That’s very, very great. Very exciting. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
And I just want to thank the mayor, the Board of Supervisors, all the many staff and 
department heads and directors and citizens, consultants. So many people who are part of 
getting us to this point and even though we had a shortened timeline, I think that 
somehow actually made us pull together as a city and like figure out how we could do 
what is best for everybody. And I know it was a lot of work getting to this point and a lot of 
work going forward but it’s really, really quite exciting. On a couple of other notes, 
Commissioner Diamond and I actually had the tour yesterday at the Stonestown mall. So, it 
was great to be out there and to get a little more thorough walk-thru of some of the plans. 
So, I just encouraged other Commissioners, if you want to learn more about the project, it 
will be coming back I believe later this Spring. So, if you want to get out and have a tour, I 
think it was well worthwhile to kind of see some of the areas where things are planned to 
change.  And then lastly, well two more things but one kind of business item, we 
scheduled last week of Closed Session for next week which is going to be the Mayor’s State 
of the City, from 12-1, which obviously we probably can only attend the fraction of that.  
But I wondered if we might move the Closed Session to the following Thursday instead of 
next Thursday if Commissioners are available. If it becomes a scheduling challenge, we can 
just keep the 9th, but if folks can do the 16th. And the City Attorney has a conflict so they 
were wondering if the Closed Session could begin at 10 am on the 16th which would give 
us maybe some time for lunch and start the hearing on time. Does that work for everyone? 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
 
Yes. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
 
 
I don’t have a problem. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Okay. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
 
10 am huh? 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Bright and early, Jonas. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
 
Just making sure that I heard that correctly. Thank you, City Attorney, for that. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Thank you. And, Commissioner Ruiz, does that work for you? 
 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
 
 
Yeah. That works for me. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Okay. Great. Thank you, Commissioners for that. And just a final few comments, you know, 
yesterday was February 1st. And so, marks the beginning of Black History Month so very 
excited to celebrate that. Again, this year there are going to be a number of events 
celebrating Black History Month that even some events are celebrating the AAPI 
community and Black community coming together and so, very excited to have that this 
month. But also comes, you know, just, this hearing a week after the video was released of 
Tyre Nichols who died after being beaten by police in Memphis, Tennessee. And so, many 
of us have been troubled by that occurrence whether you watched the video or not, just 
knowing what happened for me is traumatic enough. So, of course we want to 
acknowledge the loss of life and his family and his relatives who are healing but also the 
many in our nation, in our community in Memphis, and here who are suffering and in 
bringing up just the challenges we still have around racial justice in our nation. And as this 
Commission after the murder of George Floyd that had our resolution really centering the 
Department on racial equity and so, just let it strengthen our resolve that we are 
committed to racial and social equity. And even his mother, really a tremendous woman, 
hoping that something from his death, a positive comes out. She says she can’t imagine 
that there be a reason that he be taken other than for something positive and change to 
come out of his death. And so, I think it’s on all of us to make sure that happened whether 
it’s in our professional lives are here as Commissioners and or in our professional lives. So, I 
hope you will all join me in recommitting to that work in honor of him and all those who 
have suffered at the hands of police but also to just racial injustice in this country. So, 
thank you for that. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I just wanted to take one second to thank you for your thoughtful words and want to see 
that we commit each day to racial and social equity. We heard just this morning about 
other inequity in Washington DC, in our government and all of those thing all point in the 
wrong direction. But what you said to us right now is what we need to focus on and I very 
much appreciate that, particularly the work of the implementing the Housing Element, will 
be a major challenge. It will require everybody in the Planning Department to walk around 
with their sleeves rolled up every day.  And we are here to support that and hope we can 
constructively work with each other to really deliver. Thank you.  
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 6 of 12 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, if you would indulge me for one moment to discuss a future hearing 
agenda item. I’ll get into the Historic Preservation Commission hearing yesterday that 
talked about the Castro Theatre but at the same time under Commission Matters we 
discussed about the possibility of a joint hearing. Again, for the Castro Theatre 
entitlements. And due to conflicts by, I guess, maybe a member or two of the Historic 
Preservation Commission, it is currently scheduled to be heard by them on March 15th, 
and for you to hear it on March 16th I believe is the correct dates. But in any case, yes that’s 
right, we wanted to hold a joint hearing for those to be heard together, and so, we are 
looking at April 13th. So, if you could take a look at your calendars and I’ll get clarity from 
you all later. We don’t have to commit to that today but if you could look at April 13th, 
maybe at a 10 am start time and we would be, we anticipate basically clearing the agenda 
for just that matter. So, anyway. 
President Tanner: 
Would this be in lieu of the March hearings or an addition to? 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
In lieu of the March hearings, yes. So, on March 15th, the Historic Preservation Commission 
would continue that item to April, and then you would do the same on March 16th. 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. Thank you. 
8.
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for
the next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion]
at a commission meeting within 30 days.
SPEAKERS: 
None
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION : 
21243