2. 
Land Acknowledgement 
 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 4, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 12 
 
 
3. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
 
• Draft Minutes for April 20, 2023 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
ABSENT : 
Ruiz 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I ask that we close in memorial of Banko Brown today. An event that has saddened 
everybody in the city. And I witnessed the testimony at the Board of Supervisors and I ask 
that we think of him tonight. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Certainly. Thank you for that, Commissioner Moore. Are there any other comments or 
questions, Commissioners? I think only something else on a different note but also sad, we 
just had the Union Square presentation, and then of course the news this week about 
Nordstrom and Saks off Fifth. So, certainly things not improving but and all the more 
reason for our efforts that we will be undertaking and matters that are on our agenda 
today and that we’ll see continuing in terms of policy to try to help recover and reimagine 
our downtown, the core of the city. So, another sad moment in a different way. But on a 
positive note, we do have a Warriors game tonight. So, hopefully we can see something 
good happening for our city.      
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
 
Yeah. Hopefully we can get out early enough to see it.