7. 
Land Acknowledgement 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland 
of the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. 
As the indigenous stewards of this land and in accordance with their traditions, the 
Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their responsibilities as the 
caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional 
homeland. We wish to pay our respects by acknowledging the Ancestors, Elders, and 
Relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by affirming their sovereign rights as 
First Peoples. 
 
8. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for March 9, 2023 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
Ruiz 
 
9. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to see that the Planning Commission and perhaps together with other citizens 
ask Park and Rec about the damage to important trees in public parks and on streets. In my 
particular neighborhood, with a very important historic park right in the middle, some 
important trees which actually framed the park as a space came down and it's just a 
heartbreak. At least that is my reaction to it. Also, along streets where we use trees to 
landmark where we are, coming up Van Ness or Polk, major large trees that have been 
there forever are all down and I would like to see some response from Park and Rec about 
what they're planning to do and how the rest of the city is doing relative to major loss of 
trees.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 23, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Great, thank you. And on that note just want to thank our first responders for helping 
during the storm and certainly responding still to a lot of the damage that has happened. 
So, a pretty scary day early this week. So hopefully we won't see much more of that, but 
definitely lost a lot of trees. Unfortunately, some people lost their lives and a lot of damage 
to a lot of property. I did want to also want to note on a different topic, we are, we were 
asked in our officers meeting about scheduling a report on the racial and social equity 
work. And so, we are looking to do that probably in the June, summer timeframe. 
Hopefully both Commissioner Ruiz will be back as well as it kind of is like the anniversary in 
some ways of the resolution Centering Racial and Social Equity, so it seems like a good 
time. So, we look forward to having that, hopefully later this year. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If not, looking toward your future calendars Commissioners, I mentioned the joint with 
Health on May 11th at 10 am. The joint with BIC on May 18th had to be rescheduled and so 
we're gonna, we're scheduled for double header on May 11th. I just got confirmation from 
the Building Inspection Commission that we'll have a joint with them, with the Building 
Inspection Commission at our normal 1 pm calendar on May 11th. And currently there's 
nothing on May 18th so maybe we can, you know look at canceling that hearing? 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Well actually, sorry, I forgot I was supposed to also mention, we're working with the Urban 
Land Institute on having a technical, is it a technical advisory panel or assistance? Advisory, 
I think it's advisory panel that's going to be the week of May, last week of May. I believe so 
on May 24th which is our regular hearing day. We'll be having a presentation from the TAP 
at part of our hearing. So definitely something to look forward to. And they're looking at 
downtown, the downtown revitalization, kind of future of downtown and a couple of 
questions that staff have been scoping with them. So, something to look forward to. 
Certainly, hope to not only have a good discussion here with us, but also hearing more 
from the public. They'll be talking that week with a lot of different stakeholders and really 
some of the best minds on some of these questions gathering together to think about our 
future and particularly hopefully what our role can be as a Planning Commission in that. I 
don't know, Director Hillis if there’s anything else you want to add about the, the TAP. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
The only thing I would add is for those who don't know what ULI stands for, that is Urban 
Land Institute, a national organization comprised of professionals in Architecture, Real 
Estate, and related disciplines. They have for decades held national discussions about the 
health and the future of cities and they bring people from out of town with significantly 
different viewpoints and experiences to this panel. So, we should consider ourselves lucky 
to have such a panel for us at our disposal.  
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Absolutely. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, I also want to bring up, in terms of, I think we've had discussion about the TAC, the 
Technical Assistance Committee. And I'm wondering if they can also bring some 
information about the discussion that's been happening in the TAC as well. I wonder if we 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 23, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
can put that in the calendar as informational hearing and for them to have a presentation 
under that.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
 
Great. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
On that, I'll send you what the TAC has proposed. I mean, there's a presentation that's kind 
of the interim recommendation. They're having one more meeting with the TAC. It will 
come back to you as an ordinance. And once this is an ordinance that changes the 
Planning Code, it will ultimately come back to you. But we can look to schedule an interim 
hearing as well.  
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah, I think it's another example where it'd be good for us to maybe get some of our early 
questions and feedback out before it comes to us kind of, you know, ready for approval.  
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
Absolutely.