9.
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Tanner:
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 11 
 
10. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Great. Well, I want to just do one kind of announcement and then one question to the Commission. I was able to 
attend on Monday a retreat with the senior managers of the Department based on Racial and Social Equity and 
really kind of kicking in to another gear. That really is not just going to be our Department but really a citywide 
effort from the Office of Racial Equity really helping all departments continue to deepen their work on racial and 
social equity. And as part of that, they’re going to be offering a series of 6 different, really hands-on practical 
trainings geared towards managers on how to supervise, how to create a positive environment at work. Some 
really, really key things. Some of which you maybe interested to attend. Certainly there are 2 topics, one is 
building an anti-racist organization and of course I’m forgetting the other one. But you’ll be invited to be able to 
attend all of them. They’re virtual online trainings. I think they are going to be about 2 ½ hours each rolling out 
over the next 8 months somewhat sequentially. So, I think it will be great for us to kind of understand some of 
the things that the staff are learning and how to build a more equitable organization and then, some of it will 
apply maybe to us as Commissioners, some of it, certainly not Land Use specific. It’s again geared towards the 
entire city but do encourage you when you see those opportunities to sign up and then we’ll make sure that 
there’s no more than 3 of us in any one training so we can avoid any Brown Act violations. And, the trainings will 
be offered multiple times so there won’t be just one session for each of them. So, something to look forward to 
this year and I believe in the Spring as well. And then, one of the things we’ve talked about before our recess a 
little bit was about the start time for the hearing. So, this hearing used to start at noon and it was moved to start 
at 1 o’clock so that Commissioners could have lunch beforehand instead of having a lunch break during the 
hearing or breaking later on. Certainly, if we we’re going to have break scheduled later on I think it makes sense 
to continue 1 o’clock as our start time, but if folks do want to get out earlier, particularly as we are heading into 
the time of the year where the sun will be setting sooner and it will be dark when we get out of here at like 4 
o’clock, we might consider starting at noon. So, just wanted to put that on the, open that for the comments if 
you prefer to continue as is of if you prefer noon or if you’re agnostic and have no strong inclination either way.         
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I was the only one who has probably gone to both forms of meeting and in the end it doesn’t matter. You still 
spend your time here. But given that the windows are dark, I personally prefer the noon time and I can be 
responsible eating lunch before I get here. Those will be my comments. 
 
Commissioner Braun: 
 
I’m neutral whether we start at noon or one. So, either one is fine with me. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Same here. I’m also neutral. We can either start at 12 or 1, but if we’re starting at 12, I think we, proper notification 
of course for the public should be given so, but, I’m neutral. Thanks. 
 
President Tanner: 
Yes, certainly we would probably not be able to start it for about 20 days to a month. So, it wouldn’t be, you 
know, our next coming meetings. It will be I guess, what, in October or something thereabouts that we might 
start?  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
About 30 days because our notices state that we start at 1 o’clock so. 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Okay. So, some time for our staff to adjust to that. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
I too am neutral but I will say, when we have very long agendas, I really appreciated earlier in the year when we 
started at noon. So, even if we decide on 1, I am hopeful that if we have very long agendas and we know enough 
in advance, we could notice it for noon. But I’m happy just have all of them start at noon if that’s what anybody’s 
preference here.  
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 11 
President Tanner: 
Sure.  
Commissioner Koppel: 
Yeah, I’m uh, either would work for me but also wanted to pose the question, do we have like, maybe a little 
forecast to how packed the agendas may or may not be in the next -- 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I mean, surprisingly, I’m looking at your advance calendars Commissioners. I mean, October and November are 
both very full at the moment so you can expect considerably longer hearings than we have been experiencing.  
President Tanner: 
Yes. So that might be one reason to at least maybe even for this last quarter of the year to switch. If obviously it’s 
not working or  in some reason is not functioning well, we can switch back. And, also it will give staff a chance to 
get out a little earlier too if we know we are going to be having some longer hearings. Again, it’s one hour. I don’t 
know if it will make a huge difference but for those who are commuting, it can make a significant difference.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
And if it makes you feel any better Commissioners, going back from noon to 1 is a non-issue because the 
indication of start time is just that we can’t start before the designated time. So, if we start at 1 o’clock and the 
notice says noon, that’s fine. 
President Tanner: 
Great. 
Commissioner Koppel: 
And then just so you all know that Commissioner Moore and I were here before. We would normally almost take 
like a dinner break. We would all literrally leave the building and literally go out to eat somewhere and then walk 
back. So, it’s not like a, take a break here, it’s like actual break like and vacate -- 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
It was a real 30-minute to an hour break depending on the agenda. 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Yeah. 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
I’d be happy to start at noon. 
President Tanner: 
Okay. Hearing everybody be very amenable but no strong votes but thank you, Commissioner Ruiz, by saying 
happy to start at noon, I think we’ll go with that and look forward to maybe starting at noon in the next month 
or so. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Yeah. Let’s try that. 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I’m obviously saying the obvious, it was a sigh of relief reading the papers that the Salesforce convention is 
coming off to a good start and the city is looking good. I know we always do but I think overcoming bad press 
and really showing what we can do is definitely a sigh of relief on my side.