9. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
10. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I just want to mention that last night I attended the, I think it is the fourth open house of the Housing Element in 
the--is it officially called Housing Element--but it is an open house. I think everyone of us were invited. And it was 
good for me to see the attendance of the residents around the area and also the staff itself answering the 
questions from the public. It was a good event I thought, and I would just like to applaud the team that 
coordinated that and for the staff being there and really engaging with the residents and the public.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 16, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 8 
 
President Tanner: 
Great, thank you. That reminds me I did attend the open house last week, the third one, and again, great event. 
Really great effort by staff and just really thoughtful input from the public so, looking forward to hearing more 
about that in future hearings.  
11. REMOTE PUBLIC COMMENT 
SPEAKERS: 
= Jonas P. Ionin – Instructions from the Mayor’s office 
= Georgia Schuttish – Importance of public participation, wait until Spring 
= Sue Hestor – Delay to allow public discussion 
= Lorraine Petty – Continue remote public comment, successful program 
= Kristen Jensen, Deputy City Attorney – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Continued to December 7, 2024 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner