11. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
12. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for September 14, 2023 
• Draft Minutes for October 19, 2023 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
NAYS: 
None 
13. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I just want to--I believe this weekend, we received a letter from the Committee Equity Council regarding the 
equity, I guess they named it as Equity Vision of Downtown, which I would like to applaud them and sending 
us that kind of vision for equity as we’re thinking or going through the process of downtown recovery. And I 
also, just want to highlight too because, I think two weeks ago I went to SF MOMA and that was the time that 
the first exhibition was the Filipino artist, Precita Abad. And that was my first time actually going to SF MOMA 
exhibiting a Filipino artist and that was the day that -- it was free for the community and it was a really 
elevating moment for me. I don't usually go to SF MOMA because I can't relate to the art exhibitions but I 
think the letter that the Committee Equity Council also, it elevates us to what the experience or try the vision 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 2, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 13 
 
that they would also like to express or what the downtown should look like in terms of the theatres, the 
auditoriums that making also the BIPOC community or the communities that have been there to be part of 
their exhibits or you know, and to highlight the cultural aspects of our city. So, I would like to applaud that 
and also like to applaud SF MOMA for having a community day and it was free ticket for everyone and that 
was the first time where I would hear the Filipino music, the traditional Filipino music ringing throughout 
the theater and I thought that was really beautiful that they did that. And SOMA exhibit still open, and also, 
so I would just like to encourage other theatres around the city to also to be open to other cultural aspects 
that makes our San Francisco thriving. Thank you.  
President Tanner: 
 Awesome. That is great. I got to the De Young on a free day as well so that was a good time to go. And glad to 
hear about the exhibit. We’ll have to check it out. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I am reading and experiencing that major California insurance companies are leaving the state of California. 
That is USAA, that is Farmers, that is Allstate, and the list is quite lengthy. This is starting to have an effect on 
rental buildings and all other living units in the city. I would like to, the Department to become aware of what 
they hear, because the consequences are quite dire. One cannot own or buy a residence; one cannot live in a 
residence without having insurance and the different types of insurances. I am wondering where that is 
moving California. The state is very mum in terms of responding and helping, and at this moment, out of 
state, non-California license insurers are offering insurances at about 3 and 3 1/2 times the price of what 
former insurance cost in the past. I see that to be a major impact on everybody, owners, renters, et cetera 
because it will make it unattainable to occupy a residential unit or a home. I would like the Department to 
track that and let the public know of what you hear. The information is still very spotty and nobody really can 
give you an answer of what to do if your insurance is being canceled. Thank you.  
President Tanner: 
I second that and I had, our policy was not renewed by our insurance company so,  
Commissioner Moore: 
I’m in the same position.  
President Tanner: 
 Yeah. So, it is very, very real challenge.