5. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner So: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
6. 
CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for May 2, 2024 
• Draft Minutes for May 23, 2024 – Closed Session 
• Draft Minutes for May 23, 2024 – Regular  
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
So, Williams, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
Braun 
7. 
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
So, I’d like to start. We have received from staff a copy of a letter written by counsel for the San Bruno project 
which was in response to our Condition 18 on our CU Motion of Approval, which required a report in every 6 
months on compliance and the status of the project. I, they started by saying, the attorneys seemed to think 
this was a somewhat burdensome requirement and asked us to consider lowering the barre on that. I don’t feel 
any need to do that. I think given the circumstances that the 6-month check-in is entirely appropriate and 
recommend that we continue to do that. The condition also allows us to call for a public hearing if we think it’s 
important based upon the contents of the letter that we received. So, I had one question for staff. And that 
will—your answer will determine how I feel about having a public hearing in response to this letter. One of the 
primary concerns, I recall, of all of the Commissioners was what happens to the tenants during this time period 
when they need to reduce, well to eliminate the illegal units, some of which have been occupied by tenants. 
The letter say they currently have twelve tenants, and my recollection is that there had been at least fifteen at 
some point and maybe more. And I’m wondering, Ms. Watty, if you can suggest a procedure for how we ask the 
project sponsor in their 6-month report and certainly as additional information for this one to keep us better 
posted on what’s happening to the tenants.  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure, absolutely.  In the Executive Summary, in the final packet the day that you all approved this project, there 
was what I think was a very helpful chart in there that went building by building, floor by floor, and enumerated 

San Francisco Planning Commission