5. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Moore: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
6. 
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
So, I just wanted to point out three articles I’ve read in the Chron on last week or so that I thought were worth 
bringing to the Commission's attention and the public. One related to the amount of work that’s going on to 
allow Front Street, downtown, to be a more vibrant place in the evenings; very much in line with the 
entertainment focus that we've been talking about downtown. So, I'm excited to hear more, I hope that goes 
well. Along the same lines is the investment in the portion of Powell Street that goes from Market up to Union 
Square, with the overhead lighting and the desire to make that a more vibrant, aesthetic space that people 
want to come and see, have it be a destination; eager to see that move forward. And then third for me personally, 
was a great deal of excitement in seeing that the Crosstown Trail is now a double cross, and that not only can 
you take the trail, as I’m sure I and many of us have, from the southeast to the northwest, but you can take it 
from the southwest to the northeast, which also opens up the possibility of not needing a car or two cars to 
figure out how to get from one end to the other because you can take BART from one station to another. So, a 
really wonderful piece of work and allows so many of us to enjoy, you know, great reaches of the city in a very 
pedestrian-friendly manner.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 13, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 8 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you, President Diamond. I think those are really good comments.  Not all of us follow the paper every day. 
But in addition to that, I understand that night markets are more and becoming, that is a really important thing, 
particularly supporting neighborhoods and the energy of residents who live in the city in a very personal way. 
And I believe that the larger moves regarding Powell Street and Front Street are very good. I do hope that we 
are, most and foremost, inviting our own residents who have kind of fallen a little bit into isolation and into the 
background in the many years that we all have been separated by Covid. These are all great reuniting elements 
and I look forward for them to be very highly advertised also for us as residents. Thanks.