7. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Imperial: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
8. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for December 7, 2023  
• Draft Minutes for January 18, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
9. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thank you. Yeah, I wanted to address something that I've had many conversations with community members 
about, and it's regarding the recent state budget cuts to affordable housing. In January, I understand the 
governor delivered his statewide budget, which included more than $1.2 billion in cuts to affordable housing 
programs. And I think this is incredibly significant and cannot be ignored, especially amidst all of our 
conversations around the housing element and being in compliance. And our recent RHNA allocation, our 
affordable housing mandates increased by 285 percent going from nearly 17,000 affordable housing units to 
now almost 47,000. And I know we have fallen short in our previous affordable housing goals, and I don't think 
we most definitely will not reach them if we don't have support coming from the state. So I would like to suggest 
that the Planning Commission introduce a resolution urging the governor and state legislators to reject the 
proposed state budget cuts to affordable housing and support us with the resources that we're going to need to 
fulfill these mandates. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, thank you, Commissioner Ruiz, for bringing that up. I think its, I will be supportive for the Commission to 
write a resolution. Of course, in terms, and that's something I would ask President Diamond if that's something 
we could agendized in whatever date possible for us to create a resolution and be voted on it.  
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission