5. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Tanner: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
6. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for December 14, 2023 – Joint Hearing with Recreation and Park 
• Draft Minutes for December 14, 2023 - Regular Hearing 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Moore, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
Koppel 
7. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Tanner: 
Great. Just want to welcome everyone back to 2024. Happy New Year, everyone. Hope you all had a restful 
holiday season. I know also it's flu, RSV, Covid season. I had a little cold as well so I'll be wearing my mask 
intermittently today and just invite all those who want to, just to remember and be mindful of illnesses going 
around. If you are sick, do please stay home. That would be great. And I just also have to, it's a little out of our 
region, but congratulate the Michigan Wolverines on the national championship. Go Blue. Very exciting day on 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 11, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 9 
 
this last Monday and the Monday before. Great way to kick off the new year. So, thank you all and Happy New 
Year. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Happy New Year. The flu season is back and unfortunately, I got the flu over the holidays and so did the rest of 
my family. Not lots of fun, but it kind of made me think that would - we consider potentially leaving the idea of 
remote public comment for the public available to the end of March till we're through with it. I’ve heard that 
Historic Preservation, as well as the BIC have decided to do that. I just swung that out as an idea because it is a 
little bit tight here and lots of people potentially sneezing and being in this room is not helping any of us. I'm just 
leaving that out as an idea and like to hear if anybody else wants to comment on that. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Well, just to clarify, the Historic Preservation Commission hasn't acted on their remote public comment yet. They 
only continued it to their next hearing next week. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Anyways, some people are raising the issue because of colds, which are really indeed going around. There's no 
doubt about it.  I'm just adding a cautionary note here. 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. 
Commissioner Braun: 
I would just say, I think from the comments I shared about this topic in December, I'm certainly open to reopening 
remote public comment whether that's through March or whatever. Whatever we can kind of get. But since we 
voted on it, I assume we would need to maybe agendize it and vote on it again? Yes. 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
I'll just share my support. I was also sick over the break and I also have a little baby at home. So, I personally would 
be appreciative of moving forward with that. But I understand if that's too complicated for administrative 
purposes, then fine. But if all other Commissioners are supportive, I don't see why not. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Then just for further clarification, we would not be able to provide for Commissioners to attend remotely. 
Commissioner Moore: 
We understand that. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Okay. 
President Tanner: 
Well, perhaps we can talk about it at our next officers meeting, Katherine, and maybe schedule one off schedule 
and decide what we want to do.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Alright. 
President Tanner: 
Great. Thank you.