10. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Diamond: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
11. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for February 15, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
12. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thank you. I think most of you know, but I just wanted to take the time to announce to the public that today will 
be my last hearing. I submitted my resignation on Tuesday. I want to take these next two years to focus on my 
career and planning at CCDC, and also being a mom. So, before I pass it back to President Diamond, I just want 
to thank first and foremost, the Board of Supervisors. President Sherman Walton appointed me and trusted me 
in this seat. And, if it wasn’t for the support of him and the rest of the Board of Supervisors, I don’t feel like I would 
have pushed myself in the direction to come here, so thank you so much. And I specifically just want to say thanks 
to the Department staff, Director Hillis, and you know, everyone who has had the time to sit with me; the City 
Attorney, Jonas. I feel like every week I learned so much and I learn so much more than I thought I would have 
never been exposed to when it comes to Planning.  I want to thank my fellow Commissioners for welcoming me 
to this space. This can be an incredibly intimidating space to be a part of but I feel like every week we have a level 
of respect for one another and we each add our unique perspective, which is something I really, really appreciate. 
And one of the things that I’m going to take with me is just a bigger perspective of Planning, you know, way 
more than I thought that I’d ever consider doing community planning. The community at large, I mean, the 

San Francisco Planning Commission