7. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Williams: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
8. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for March 21, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
9. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
So, I'd like to start out by directing a question to Director Hillis. As we all know, we all received a letter from the 
Mayor yesterday relating to the rezoning. And I would like to understand further how the Planning Department, 
reacts to the letter and sort of the pathway, as you see it going forward. I know we all just received a memo from 
you on this, but I haven't had a chance to read it because it just came. So, maybe you could talk us through the 
memo.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. So, yeah, you should have in your email from Lisa Chen, a memo from us, basically trying to outline the 
steps of how we get from where we are today to a revised recommendation to you all on the rezoning. And as 
you know, we're under a timeline by HCD to get there by the end of next year. So, we have time, but we don't 
have a lot of time given the legislative process. And, you know, the amount of area we're looking at and the 
complications with it, so, that memo kind of lays out some of the topics and steps. And first, I just wanted to 
appreciate our team, Lisa Chen who's been leading this, Rachael Tanner who was on the Commission, Josh 
Switzky, and there are others, for their professionalism and thoughtfulness throughout this whole process. 
Because, as you know, it's not an easy task and the Mayor laid that out. You know, she's heard you. You've heard 
from folks who both say, this is going too far or this isn't going far enough, but you should know, we will continue 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 15 
 
to kind of put forward recommendations that we think are good Planning policy, good public policy, and really 
use data and analysis to get there. So, I think the Mayor's letter reinforces that. She gets fairly specific on some of 
her recommendations, but not into the-- to the level of detail we can just change the map from looking at 
underutilized sites. And some of those have come up in our, in our discussions with community like Laguna 
Honda, add additional opportunities for six and eight-story buildings in the city, and also consider removing 
density limits but keeping our controls like height and rear yard in places to allow for more units in a kind of an 
allowable box. And even prior to the Mayor's memo, we were working on a revision to our proposal based on 
comments we have received from you and from others throughout this process. We're not going to have this 
map tomorrow. You know, this, it's fairly complicated. And there are complicated topics that you have brought 
up and others have brought up, and that were included in the Mayor's letter. Some of those State Density Bonus 
and how our local program works with State Density Bonus. The feasibility analysis. And the Mayor talked on this 
like, what's feasible, where are we going to get housing? What type of project is actually feasible?  How our 
modeling, how we get to the numbers that we're required to get through under RHNA. There was an article in 
the paper today about kind of our modeling. We'll show you our modeling and be transparent about it. 
Affordable housing sites and strategies, objective design standards, which you have all pushed us on; density 
decontrol, how that would work as a tool; historic preservation; protecting small businesses; and just do we have 
the level of infrastructure and transit or how do we get there to accommodate that housing? So, we want to be 
thoughtful and deliberate on this. We want to bring you those topics. They may be bunched together in a couple 
of hearings or some of them that are more complicated may stand alone as their own hearing, because those are 
kind of the ingredients that will go into ultimately providing a revised map and rezoning to you all. So, that's our 
plan. We're happy to get your input on that approach. Topics you want to add or subtract from that list. As I said, 
we don't have a ton of time, but we do have time to be thoughtful and deliberate on this, and we will be. So, 
thank you, 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you, Director Hillis, for giving us a quick response. This is coming very unexpected. I do want to commend 
the Mayor to leading the charge to wanting to take a step back and really saying, let's do it correct. That is, I think 
the issue. I do hear a strong resonance with topics being brought up by other Commissions, the Board of 
Supervisors regarding more neighborhood focused planning. That's still leaves the objectives of priority 
neighborhoods, etc., all on the table. However, doing it with more neighborhood focused input, I think, is where 
the success of San Francisco Planning has been and where I think we continue to need to have it be focused. The 
one thing I would like to say, and I am not looking at anybody in this room, what I do strongly object to is that 
this morning the paper was full of very incendiary comments basically throwing the Planning Department under 
the bus and that is where my patience stops. We're sitting here as volunteers. There's nothing in this position by 
which we have a horse in the race. We're doing as best as we can as professionals with different backgrounds to 
help keep the voice open of where the community is telling us stop, listen to us, etc. However, to politicize this 
to the extent that the Planning Department is being thrown under the bus, that is where the buck stop for me. 
I'm a professional planner, I am an architect, and I am a professional urban designer, and I do believe that the 
Planning Department is doing everything possible, humanly possible to rise to the incredible challenges that are 
coming out of Sacramento. They're almost impossible to tackle by anybody on its own, because our professional 
education has not prepared us for that type of, I want to be diplomatic here, challenge to what we professionally 
do. However, for some other voices in the community to tell me that the Planning Department has known all 
along what they are doing that is, I think, unacceptable. So, I want to leave it with that. And I would caution that 
you please help the Department, that you help us to do it correctly this time around, rather than all of a sudden 
coming out of the woodwork and taking credit for many of the people who are writing, don't have any idea or 
any background to participate or have a voice. Thank you. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just on the memo we sent, too, has a list of kind of the community meetings we've held, and most of those are 
in neighborhoods with, with, groups that represent, you know, residents in that neighborhood. We’ll continue 
to do that through this process. We've done that. We've reached out not just to residents, but beyond, you know, 
because there are more than just the residents that have an interest in where we're, where we're going on this. 
So, we will continue to do that, but I appreciate those comments. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 15 
 
President Diamond: 
I will add to Commissioner Moore's comments that I  believe that we have engaged in an incredibly thoughtful 
process so far. This is a very challenging topic to figure out how to add 82,000 units within a short period of time 
that actually have a strong likelihood of being built, so that it's not a paper exercise. And I have been impressed 
by the work of the Planning Department and the thoughtfulness in its approach, and by the community input 
that we have received, because we're all trying to do what's in the best interests of the city. There are different 
visions for how we get there, although at the end of the day, you know, we are all trying to accomplish the goal 
that was set by Sacramento in a way that we feel preserves, what we all value most and love about our city, but 
still makes room for our children, our teachers, our firefighters, you know, people of all income levels to be able 
to live here, stay here, and enjoy everything that our incredible city offers to us.  I thought and continue to think 
that the work of the Department to date has been fantastic, I support the notion of having these additional 
hearings on these, you know, subject matter, the list of subject matters that you raised because I think we all 
need more understanding, as to how those specific subjects affect what the ultimate map will be. You've heard 
from all of us before that we really want to understand how infrastructure is keeping pace with the addition of 
housing. You've heard from all of us that we need to understand how what we're doing intersects with, not only 
existing State Density Bonus legislation, but what might arise in the future so that we don't inadvertently end up 
with rules that take us in a direction that we hadn't anticipated, given the overall complexity of this process. So 
my view is keep going, I think that the work that's been done to date has been terrific. And that taking the time 
to do an in-depth dive on the subject matters that you raised is absolutely appropriate. And you will continue to 
get feedback from all of the interested groups leading to the next, you know, version of the map that reflects the 
work that's done to date, in addition to what we learned from these additional hearings. So thank you, actually 
on behalf of the Commission, for all the work that's been done by staff, in getting us to this point in time. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, first, I also, you know, thank the Mayor, in directing the Planning Commission and the Department to revisit 
the housing, the rezoning that is going to happen. And also, I guess for me, this is my question in terms of our 
timeline, since there's going to be additional hearings, is this going to be pushed back in terms of other 
informational hearings that we're  about to hear? I thought that we're going to hear this, you know, kind of like  
updates this month, April or spring. Is that going to be, moved, moved in-- 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And you've  got the memo. The goal is these topics feed into the ultimate map in rezoning. Take Preservation for 
instance. I mean, we've had a lot of discussion at HPC, and internally, on Preservation. But I think we have to have 
a hearing on Preservation. And, because of changes in state law that kind of are coupled with the potential 
rezoning, how we preserve those assets, buildings, and cultural assets that we want to preserve. And we want 
to lay out a plan for you all and have community weigh in and have that baked into our rezoning proposal. So, I 
think these are all ingredients that will ultimately go into a kind of a future, a map. But again, we've got to do it 
relatively quickly because in that kind of Planning world timeline, you know, you all I mean, some of you have 
been here where it's taken eight years to get to kind of a plan adoption. We don't have that time, right? We've 
got to do this by the end of next year, and that's baking in the legislative process. So, I don't set out specific dates, 
but that memo kind of shows the topics and we'll try to get to them quickly. But I think we need to have those 
hearings. You need to understand those and give us input before we present you with kind of a new map. But I 
think conceptually, we'll all know kind of where it's going based on those discussions. And we've got copies of 
that memo too, you have it in your email. We'll post it on our website. But there's hard copies too. But again, it's 
more topic based, not necessarily a specific timeline. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, I just want to also clarify in terms of, because I know that there are still ongoing outreach that is happening 
still, and whether, you know, and from last hearing too we kind of had an informal discussion about the outreach 
and the, you know, the types of that people hasn't heard about this, when we mean quickly, what did the-- what 
do we mean by that? Does that mean like mailers? Because that's something that we were brought up from last 
week’s conversation. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 15 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. And I mean we can, again, that could be part of our discussion to in an early one like how we're going to 
because we're you'll see the outreach we're doing. We kind of lay it out in some of the additional outreach. But I 
think as far as like if we were going to send a mailer based on here's the proposal that we're looking at to rezone, 
we'd want a proposal to send out. So, there'd be kind of issues as to when the best time to send that out. But we 
can talk about that as we talk about the timeline as well.   
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Hillis, I have a couple of very practical questions. Can we use these upcoming slightly slower days 
Thursdays, where we may actually want to cancel, to use it to have constructive questions and answers focused 
on our various areas of expertise to help put some new stakes in the ground and broaden the discussion of how 
we do this? 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure.  
Commissioner Moore: 
One of my questions is are we going to use ARC/GIS to basically model the city throughout in visualizing 
increased density, not just by a little street here or there, but we have the tools to do it differently. We have the 
database to do it differently. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I mean, my recommendation would be we'd be more topic based so experts could come and advocates 
and people who are interested in those topics. But if you have additional questions, concerns or topics you want 
us to touch on, by all means send them to us and we'll figure out kind of when to put them. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to actually, as the people hear us speak about it, for example--  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. No no that’s what I mean by we would add them onto a calendar as a topic so we can present to you what 
we're doing and you can respond. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to do this as quickly as possible to help you to kind of not interrupt the flow of your work, but feed 
and a lively discussion in the upcoming weeks to basically help you broaden the approach of how you look at 
this and move forward with new input and create probably different perspectives of how to solve certain 
problems which haven't been addressed before.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Another issue would be for me to look really, in a very small scale, and I think Mayor Breed sensitively touches on 
that, finance ability of immediate actions, construction types, lower buildings allow us X, Y, and Z, but if we go 
over X numbers of stories, there is another issue here, that we create practical guides, not just on the esthetic 
and height etc. limit, but also on the implementation limit, and then take it from there wherever it goes. But I 
would like to immediately get all of us actively involved in furthering the discussion. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, absolutely. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 15 
 
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you, Director Hillis, for all your work around the Housing Element. I know it's a tremendous feat, and so I 
just want to, you know, give you guys , your proper due. You guys have been working hard. One thing that I 
haven't heard, though, is the Equity Provisions, in the Housing Element. And I'm concerned that that has been 
kind of, it feels to me like skipped over. And I'm talking about the Provisions 4.1.3 to 8.1.9. All those are Equity 
Provisions that are inside the Housing Element. And I just was curious on how we're going to, like, intertwine 
that into the final, rezoning. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, a couple of things. I mean, just the effort we're doing comes out of the Housing Element, which, you know, 
the foundational principle of that was Equity, like where we're looking to rezone is based on, on areas that 
haven't seen equitable development or that they are well resourced neighborhoods. So, there's things baked in. 
But I get you. You know, we can highlight and we're doing an overall equity analysis of the rezoning to show that 
there are issues around tenant displacement that are factored in. And we've got zoning proposals or proposals 
that are baked into that. So, it's hard to just remove that topic from everything we're doing and saying, this is an 
independent topic because it's embedded in all of these topics. And what we're looking at, issues around 
Preservation, we're not just looking at buildings that we think, but cultural assets that that are important to 
communities. So, we can we can have a separate hearing too or part of a hearing to talk about kind of how that 
that weaves in. But I would anticipate too that's a topic in every one of these hearings that we're talking about. 
Commissioner Williams: 
Yeah, just reminding that this whole Housing Element is supposed to be centered on, on equity, and so I just 
want to just, you know, remind us, like, you know, to keep that front and center. And so it sounds like you're 
going to be willing to further that conversation. And with some real implementation acts or around, and baked 
into the Housing Element. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Absolutely. And each of these that, you know, it should not be a standalone topic. It should be a topic that's 
incorporated into each of these topics. Because again, the effort that we're doing where we're rezoning, why 
we're rezoning in specific neighborhoods is based on the state's mandate for us to affirmatively further fair 
housing, but also our Housing Element, which, as you point out, was centered in equity. But again, we're happy 
to talk into, you know, have a topic on that as well to show kind of how that's weaved into everything, and the 
analysis we're doing. So yeah, I think I think, yes and to or both. And we can do that as part of each of these 
hearings and also have kind of a separate discussion on it as well. 
Commissioner Williams: 
Okay. Thank you.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yup.   
Commissioner Braun: 
So, I just want to add my thanks for the quick turnaround on the memo that describes kind of where we're at 
with the Expanding Housing Choice and Housing Element Zoning Program and the thoughtful approach that's 
been taken here to, you know, having a series of more deliberative, topic specific future hearings. I've been 
mostly just listening intently to what my fellow Commissioners had to say. And maybe there's some tweaks to 
the topics. But for the most part, I feel like the topics that have been suggested here are, at least, capturing a lot 
of elements of what have been raised today. You know, when we talk about the proposed local program and its 
relationship to the State Density Bonus, that has implications as far as both the built outcomes for the city as well 
as affordable housing outcomes, for the units that are built as inclusionary units with affordable housing sites 
and strategy, you know, that is our affordable housing, a piece of our affordable housing, approach and strategy. 
So, there's a lot of equity implications there. Infrastructure and small business support captures a lot of elements 
of, you know, our local neighborhoods and their character and preserving a lot of what makes San Francisco 
special. The objective design standards, this plays out in terms of, you know, ultimately what the zoning is and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 15 
 
what the design looks like and how that interacts with density maximums, as well as the financial feasibility 
analysis, which also factors into the kinds of buildings will actually get, how tall they'll be, how likely they are to 
get built. And then, of course, there's the Historic Preservation which was raised as an issue that impacts where 
we direct growth in the future. So, you know, for the most part, I'm glad to see that this a lot of the Commissioner 
comments have even been anticipated and kind of captured in this list. So, I'm looking forward to a lot of really 
robust conversations over the next couple of months. I'm glad we have extra time to address this. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thanks. And thank you, Jonas, for giving us a long leash on talking about a non agendized topic. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I was waiting for it.