10. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Diamond: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
11. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for February 15, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
12. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Thank you. I think most of you know, but I just wanted to take the time to announce to the public that today will 
be my last hearing. I submitted my resignation on Tuesday. I want to take these next two years to focus on my 
career and planning at CCDC, and also being a mom. So, before I pass it back to President Diamond, I just want 
to thank first and foremost, the Board of Supervisors. President Sherman Walton appointed me and trusted me 
in this seat. And, if it wasn’t for the support of him and the rest of the Board of Supervisors, I don’t feel like I would 
have pushed myself in the direction to come here, so thank you so much. And I specifically just want to say thanks 
to the Department staff, Director Hillis, and you know, everyone who has had the time to sit with me; the City 
Attorney, Jonas. I feel like every week I learned so much and I learn so much more than I thought I would have 
never been exposed to when it comes to Planning.  I want to thank my fellow Commissioners for welcoming me 
to this space. This can be an incredibly intimidating space to be a part of but I feel like every week we have a level 
of respect for one another and we each add our unique perspective, which is something I really, really appreciate. 
And one of the things that I’m going to take with me is just a bigger perspective of Planning, you know, way 
more than I thought that I’d ever consider doing community planning. The community at large, I mean, the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 29, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 12 
 
participation at public comment or via email, you know, I think that’s so important to the work we do. And then 
I also just want to acknowledge the support from my employer. You know, being flexible in allowing me to be 
on this space on a work day. So with that, I will give it back to President Diamond. But I’m going to miss being up 
here and I just want to thank everyone for giving me the space. 
President Diamond: 
Thank you, Commissioner Ruiz. We’re going to miss you terribly. So disappointed, although understanding of 
this news. You have brought a valuable perspective and also an incredibly, wonderful style. You worked hard to 
get across your views and hear others and figure out how to get alliance on matters of importance. So, I am very 
sad that you are departing and wish you all the best in, you know, whatever else comes next. 
Commissioner Braun: 
I just wanted to thank Commissioner Ruiz for your service on this body. And, it’s been really wonderful having 
you also as my neighbor on the dais this entire time and having, you know, all the more opportunity to discuss 
matters and also just life in general. So, I really appreciate having you here. I think you’ve brought a really 
wonderful and important perspective, both as somebody who was born and raised in San Francisco, and also 
somebody who really prioritizes equity and community voice. And has really done a great job of, of always 
pushing this body to be thoughtful and to do better, and so I also wish you the best of luck in the future. I hope 
we will be seeing you on this or another Commission someday in the future again. But yes, yeah we’re going to 
miss you. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I just wanted to thank Commissioner Ruiz. Thank you for being the person you are. The 3 Team will miss you 
tremendously but the 6 Team, 7 Team will miss you just as much. You know what I mean. This is an inside joke. 
While we lose her, her little daughter will benefit. I wish you all the best. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, it’s sad to hear of you departing the Planning Commission and on the time that you’ve been here and 
working with you has been very valuable. And I think the Board of Supervisors made a great choice to nominate 
you as a Commissioner and the voice, on behalf of the voice of the community. So, I wish you all the best and 
also hopefully have a good time now with your daughter. Yeah, so, thank you.  
I also want to share about, on behalf of the SF Planning Department and of the Planning Commission, we grieve 
the sudden death, unexpected passing of Maurillo Leon, who is the Chief Executive officer of the Tenderloin 
Neighborhood Development Corporation (TNDC), and just want to make a short commemoration on behalf of 
the Commission as well.  
An inspiring and strong leader, Maurillo served the people of San Francisco with a fierce passion for housing 
justice. The SF Planning Commission honors his legacy and impact in the Tenderloin and throughout all San 
Francisco. His pursuit of Affordable Housing as a matter of social justice for low-income, working-class individuals 
and families was inflected by lives, experience and powered by his education. Maurillo was born into a Mexican 
immigrant working family and became the first member of his family to attend college. Thanks to opportunity 
programs like migrant education and federal TRIO programs. He graduated from University of California, 
Berkeley and earned a Master of Public Policy from the Harvard Kennedy School. He dedicated his personal and 
professional life to fostering opportunity, equity, and general change for immigrants, low income families, and 
families of colors. We remember him for passion and leadership in building housing for so many vulnerable 
families in San Francisco, the challenging work that he had led with humility and grace. We wish his family, 
friends and community and the entire TNDC team peace and love as they navigate this tragic loss. And I would 
like to invite, if there is any from the public that would like to speak about his passing or share a memory of him, 
feel free to do so. And I would also like to propose to end this session today, on behalf of Maurillo Leon. 
Roxanne Huey (TNDC): 
Hi, I’m Roxanne Huey, CFO at Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation, and now the interim co-CEO 
of TNDC with my co-CEO, Katie Lamont here. I want to thank the Commission for giving us this time and for 
recognizing Maurillo. He meant a lot to me. He meant a lot to the organization. He meant a lot to the City and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 29, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 12 
 
the people we serve. I know that he’s the reason I was at, I came to TNDC, and all of his passion for Affordable 
Housing. I will guarantee to carry on in his name. Thank you.  
Katie Lamont (TNDC): 
Thank you. I just want to share, as you know, Maurillo had an incredible life story. He was a great man, so humble. 
He cared deeply about people and public service. He cared deeply about community and connection. When you 
were with him, he gave you his full attention. He would ask how what was happening made you feel, he 
encouraged me to get and stay rooted, centered, grounded. He touched and continues to touch colleagues and 
friends across multiple communities he belonged to. There were so many I was aware of and even more I’m 
becoming aware of. He was so deeply committed to supportive housing, all kinds of housing, to working with 
immigrants and migrants. This was his work. I know this is your work and our work. I’m so grateful for this 
community and for the honor that you’re doing him today. Thank you. 
Fernando Pujals (TNDC): 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Planning staff. Thank you for being here and offering this moment for Maurillo. 
My name is Fernando Pujals. I’m here on behalf of the Board of Directors of TNDC  joined, of course, by our interim 
co-CEOs, Roxanne and Katie, who you just heard from. Maurillo really exuded a couple of qualities that are rare, 
but one found in leaders are incredibly powerful. Well, to lead with humility and caring and facing challenges 
with great optimism. On behalf of the Board and the staff, I just want to thank the Commission, our community 
partners in the Tenderloin and in the region who have just shown an outpouring of support and I want to express 
personally how proud I am of the Board and the staff for the way I’ve watched them come together in this really 
difficult time. And I know that we’re going to continue on in Maurillo’s legacy and staying focused on the most 
important part of our work, which is really creating opportunity for folks who don’t start at the same blocks as 
everyone else, and I just leave you with that as you carry forward in your work. And it is a tremendous loss. But 
there’s also an incredible strength and coming together in the organization and in our partners as I’ve mentioned. 
So, thank you for taking this moment to honor Maurillo. Our hearts are certainly with his family. Thank you.  
President Diamond: 
Thank you for those beautiful tributes, and we will end the meeting in his memory. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
One, thank you for those comments. I just wanted to highlight, two, Maurillo joined our all-staff meeting just a 
couple of weeks ago to be on a panel to talk about our collective work in the Tenderloin and really, truly inspired 
our staff. You know, and often we focus on the challenges of the Tenderloin, which he did too. But really 
highlighted the beauty of the Tenderloin especially its residents. And you know, just inspired us all about the 
work we are doing and the work he did in the Tenderloin. So, just want to send our condolences to his family and 
to the, to his work family and the Tenderloin and the community. Thank you. 
President Diamond: 
On a separate and unrelated note, I think we all read with disappointment Macy’s announcement that it’s closing 
in Union Square, and I wonder if the Planning Department is involved at all or engaged in conversations about 
potential uses of that space and what might transpire going forward? 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, I mean, early but we are in in talking to OEWD, who’s more the lead on this about the property. I mean 
Macy’s has indicated that they will not close the store until they actually sell the property. So, we hope that means 
then a use, the work you’ve done over the past couple of months or years, in providing more flexible zoning in 
Union Square will kind of allow for, you know, other potential uses than retail. Although I think retail would be a 
great use still to anchor Union Square, but it could be housing, it could be office. It’s very flexible now, the 
underlying zoning there. So, I think probably we owe you and update on the work we’re doing with OEWD 
around downtown. So, we’ll calendar that in the coming weeks as well.  
President Diamond: 
I think that would be great. Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 29, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 12