9. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Diamond: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, August 1, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 10 
 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
10. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for July 18, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
McGarry, So, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
11. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
I’m going to start. First, I want to welcome our new Commissioner, Sean McGarry, I will tell you that I have 
considered it a privilege and an honor to serve for the last five years, and I hope that you feel the same way. 
Welcome. 
Commissioner McGarry: 
Thank you.  
President Diamond: 
And with that, I want to let everyone know that this is my last hearing.  After much thought, I have declined to 
accept the mayor's offer to renominate me for another term. As many of you know, I have two brand new baby 
grandsons in LA, one is five weeks old and one is three days old. And I want the flexibility to help out their 
parents. I have no intention of being the granny nanny, or of moving to LA. I absolutely love living in San 
Francisco, but I do want the flexibility to be back up and to be a presence in their lives, and that is inconsistent 
with the workload and the weekly schedule of this Commission. For the past 40 years, it's been my delight to 
juggle career, kids, community and public service, and the last five years I've been able to prioritize public service 
by serving on this Commission, and it's been such an honor to do so. But for the next little while, I'm going to 
prioritize my family.  
So a number of thank you, first to the mayor, for having nominated me several times and to the Board for having 
affirmed my seat on this Commission. Second, a special shout out to the Tech Department, for allowing me to 
hear what's going on. As most of you know, I suffer from significant hearing loss, and without the Tech 
Department, in conjunction with Jonas’ request to come up with better and better devices, I wouldn't have 
otherwise been able to hear, and therefore I couldn't have participated. I want to thank Director Hillis, Miss 
Watty, and all of the staff for the conviction of their positions. The incredible analysis that they produce in the 
staff reports for us every week, and for answering my never ending questions on every matter. Jonas, your skill 
at ensuring that this Commission runs smoothly is just not to be believed. Thank you for all your work. And a 
special thank you to the public, for your letters, for your phone calls, and for showing up. It's your participation 
that makes this process what it is. And finally to my fellow Commissioners, for the respect that shown to each 
other and for the willingness and the openness to other people's opinions before making decisions. It's been 
one of the joys and the hallmarks of this Commission over the past five years and I have truly enjoyed that. I will 
miss it all. Especially at a time when we're working so hard to use every land use tool we have in the box to grow 
our economy, create housing opportunities for everybody, attract visitors, and a special shout out to meet the 
needs of families. Thank you all.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Commissioner Diamond couldn't say it better. She will be a hard act to follow and I will personally very much 
miss her. She comes with experience, she comes with a courageous voice, and she comes with a loving 
personality that cares. And I do understand that there are times in our lives when we need to make a decision, 
and I truly and deeply respect her to choose a personal path in her life after she has given a lot to the community 
and a lot to this Commission. I wish you the best. You will be missed, particularly her experience and mature 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, August 1, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 10 
 
voice is definitely needed to balance it out and we often come from different positions, but we deeply respect 
what we do and we consult with each other in a caring way to deliver the best we can here, as President, as Vice 
President.  
President Diamond: 
Thank you so much.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Sue, I will call you by your first name. You will be seriously missed and I wish you all the best, but we will not 
lose touch because we know each other. Thank you. 
President Diamond: 
So lovely. Thank you. 
Commissioner Braun: 
First, I just want to say welcome, Commissioner McGarry. Welcome to the Commission. President Diamond, Sue, 
I've always been so impressed by your your commitment to service for the City. And I know that serving on this 
Commission, you've said is, you know, has been a lifelong dream and something I know you've taken very 
seriously. And so you're definitely, I'm definitely going to miss you, and I'm going to I hopefully we'll still 
continue to have great conversations about, you know, what is best for San Francisco and debating that. And 
I've always appreciated that dialog that has been possible as you've served as President. So, thank you so much. 
I really appreciate your service.   
President Diamond: 
Thank you so much for those wonderful comments.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
Commissioner Diamond, I will definitely miss you. I deeply respect you and the knowledge that you have 
brought here in the Planning Commission. I truly enjoy the dialogs that we have, the debates that we have, and 
although there are times that we don't see things eye to eye, I'm very proud of what the Commission can bring 
to this City and you are a big contribution to that as well. And so four years or five years at this point seems like 
long, but it felt like yesterday, and I wish you could have continued, but I'm very happy for you and spending 
time with your family, and you're really deserve it. So I will miss you so much. Thank you.  
President Diamond: 
I’m so moved. Thank you so much. 
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you, Sue. I, you're going to be deeply missed on this Commission. You know, your experience and your 
knowledge, nothing gets past you, and, you know, I appreciate that. And I wish you all the best for you and your 
family. I, you know, I wish, like, Commissioner Imperial, I wish you didn't have to go because I think there's going 
to be a big hole in the Commission. But having said that, I know that you have to do what you have to do, you 
know? And so, I just want to say, thank you. I respect you very much. And you know, thank you for serving our 
city, and, just thank you. 
President Diamond: 
Thank you. That means a great deal to me. 
Commissioner So: 
President Diamond, it's been an honor to have this onboarding experience with you. You have shown your 
warm welcome and extremely detail oriented to make sure I know every button to push. So, I really appreciate 
that. And I really wish you for the best. Helping your daughter to raise two grand kids. It's probably harder than 
serving on the Planning Commission. And, we'll be here to help offering nanny services if you need to. I am 
offering. I would like to go to LA. But I really echo with my fellow Commissioners, sensibility is your unique 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, August 1, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 10 
 
expertise in your decades long service, both in your professional business and in your volunteer capacity for our 
City, the Land Use subject matter expertise that you offer to our Commission, it will be really, really missed. She 
had caught every single typo, every single missing paragraph that we have in the last wee hours. I am just so 
appreciated and I hope that we all together kind of, you know, carry on the torch. So, you never left us. And I 
wish you for the best and enjoy your family. 
President Diamond: 
Thank you so much, Commissioner So.   
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to actually welcome Mr. McGarry, because in all of the focus on President Diamond, we need to 
wholeheartedly welcome you to this group. It is not an easy job and will be in the trenches, and we'll just do 
what we need to do. And welcome to the club.   
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, President Diamond. Welcome, what's your last name? Sorry. McGarry. And welcome Commissioner 
McGarry. And, again, this is, we were looking forward, this is a very robust. We usually have a robust 
conversation here in Commission and I'm looking forward to hear your contribution here as well.  
But I also want to bring up, you know, a subject matter that I know we're going to be in the recess soon, and I 
know that the Planning Department has been thinking of putting out informational hearings when it comes to 
the Housing Element, especially in the expanding Housing Choice program. And so I thought that, and also we 
also received a letter from the from one of the coalition, SF Reps Coalition, talking about whether we can have 
informational hearings about the update on Expanding Housing Choice. And particularly, and this is also for me, 
I think we've brought up the issues during the Expanding Housing Choice hearings, the issue on the small 
business and at the same time, the issues of the tenant displacement, also in the terms of demolitions as well. 
So I'm hoping that the that the Commission, we can put it in our calendar in September about these two topics 
and to do it in a separate forum, in a separate hearings, because let's also in terms of small business, I think there 
are things that we have not thoroughly, have a hearing about it. And we would like to have more updates on 
that as to what the Department is actually doing for the protection of the small businesses, and also in terms of 
tenant displacement in the in the subject of the demolition as well. So, I hope that that's something that the 
Commission we can put in in the month of September. They're proposing in September 19, 26, but I also would 
like to hear what what our calendar would look like in September. 
President Diamond: 
I want to give one other shout out and that’s to the City Attorney’s Office. We get incredible legal advice, and I 
have so much respect for the legal guardrails that they provide with us so that we can design conditions, 
proposed legislation with confidence, that we're staying within the law. So, thank you to both Kristen and 
Austin. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If there's nothing further, Commissioners, if you would indulge me for one moment to also echo the words of 
your fellow Commissioners. Commission President Diamond, your thoughtful and calm voice was much 
appreciated in this chamber. So, thank you and wishing you all the best in your in the next chapter in your life. 
President Diamond: 
Thank you so much.