9.   LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
 
10.  CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
 
• Draft Minutes for January 11, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore  
ABSENT: 
Diamond 
 
11.  COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
 
Vice President Moore: 
We have an unusual event today, and it's actually for me sitting here, not the most joyous one, but one for 
somebody else. It is Commissioner Tanner. As of last week, President Tanner leaving us and I would like her to 
take this opportunity under Commission Comments in recognition of her contributions and as a colleague to 
make comments that perhaps normally would appear under public comments. But we want to just basically 
honor her to make these comments today. 
 
Rachael Tanner: 
Thank you, Vice President Moore, and thank you all for letting me have a few moments to just talk with you and 
share a little bit about my journey to this point and the new role that I'll be having, and also to primarily share a 
lot of thanks and gratitude for all of you and for the Department. As many of you know, and as Secretary Ionin 
said, I have resigned from the Commission in order to take a position as the Director of Citywide Planning for the 
Planning Department here in San Francisco. And you know, it's something that I can't say I thought that I would 
be in this position if you'd asked me a year or a year and a half ago, I would said, no way. I do remember when 
AnMarie came here and told us that she was leaving it was like a lot of bittersweetness. I was like, oh my gosh, 
she's leaving. I was very happy to hear she's going to Treasure Island, so not very far, and a project that will help 
us meet our RHNA goals. So, very exciting to hear that. But I had this twinge of intuition also like, oh, you know, 
there's going to be an opening, maybe I should apply for this job when it opens, which I thought this little twinge 
of intuition, tooth and nail for a long time, I think until the last day that the applications were due in fact. And I 
had just left, probably a year or in some change before then, my job as the Assistant Director of Planning and 
Development Services for the City of Palo Alto and I had said, you know, never going back, I'm going to work for 
myself, like there's nothing like it. Like so much freedom, blah, blah, blah, all exciting. And it reminded me of 
another never say never moment that I had ten years earlier when I finished my grad school in Planning, I said, 
I'm never moving to California and I'm never working in government, which were the first two things I did 

San Francisco Planning Commission