6. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Vice President Moore: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
7. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for February 29, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
Georgia Schuttish – Amendments to her general public comment 
ACTION:  
Adopted as Amended 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
8. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
I want to start by welcoming our new Commissioner. We look forward to you joining us in our deliberations and 
hearing your perspective and being part of our decision-making process. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 14, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 9 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Welcome, Commissioner Williams.  
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you, Commissioner. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
This will be a short day but you’ll get a very good feel of how things are done. I’d like to ask my fellow 
Commissioners to remember Commissioner Ruiz and her attempt to support the resolution that she had drafted 
regarding Affordable Housing Programs and a note to the Governor of the State of California. We had had drafts 
of that and what happened is our own deliberations that we had planned was somewhat short cut because of 
the Board of Supervisors adapting, adopting Resolution 5924 in early February, a resolution that in content very 
much resembles of what Commissioner Ruiz had suggested to us. I like to ask that we support this particular 
resolution urging the State of California to withdraw proposed cuts to Affordable Housing Programs and that the 
Commission agrees to support this resolution. I’d like to count your comments and ask for your support. 
President Diamond: 
So, I’ll start by saying I absolutely support the resolution. I thought it was extremely well drafted and I’m very 
happy as Commission President to weigh in and say it has my full support. 
Commissioner Braun: 
Sure. I want to start by also welcoming Commissioner Williams to the Planning Commission. It is great to seeing 
more people up here on the dais again and I’m really looking forward to hearing your perspective and everything 
that you have to share, and so, welcome. And then as far as supporting the resolution, absolutely. You know, we 
recently had an informational item and heard about the significant challenges that exists for funding affordable 
housing, how funding is the number one need in order to ensure that we’re producing affordable housing and 
absolutely yes, I support the resolution.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
Welcome, Commissioner Williams, in the Planning Commission. And just like other Commissioners, also would 
like to hear your many comments that you will provide in the Commission and welcome. In terms of the 
resolution by the Board of Supervisors, I read the resolution itself and it seems like it’s very well drafted and really 
looked into the, you know, the findings of why we need the affordable housing here in San Francisco. So, I solely 
also strongly support the resolution drafted by the Board of Supervisors. 
President Diamond: 
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Also welcome, Commissioner Williams. I think we’re getting our way back to a full seven up here which I think is 
very important. And I’m also in full support of Commissioner Moore’s idea. Thank you. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to ask Secretary Ionin what would be the best form for us to acknowledge? I don’t think it requires 
a motion. How is this best done? By the City Attorney?  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I think, I mean, we could agendize it on the next week’s agenda and then you could simply take a vote to endorse 
the resolution.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Acceptable [inaudible] 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 14, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 9 
 
President Diamond: 
Yeah. I’m happy to do that. Would that add additional weight to the comments that were just done right now? 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Well, I would imagine so. It would be recorded in the minutes that way you could take a vote.  
President Diamond: 
And this conversation is not recorded in the minutes?  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
It is actually. The Commission Comments and Questions, we do actually transcribe your comments.  
President Diamond: 
Yeah. So, I mean, I’m fine agendizing it for an endorsement if you all would like to do that. I don’t know that it’s 
required but if it’s, let me see.  
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you, Commissioner. I just want to lend my voice. I know this is my first day but I am absolutely in favor of 
this resolution here. Given that the shortage of affordable housing that we’re facing as a city, this is devastating 
and for us. And so, yeah, definitely in favor of this. 
President Diamond: 
Okay. Thank you. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I just want to give you, I mean, I think it’s fine too. It’s already the City’s, because I mean, because the Board vote 
on it, it is the City’s policy. But I don’t think it hurts to take it up as well. I just want to, I mean, we all know Prop A 
passed, which is great. And part of what we have talked about in the report you heard was in, I think, 
Commissioner Williams, you brought this up in your, your nomination hearing. Like, we need more resources to 
fund affordable housing. So, good news that Prop A passed. Obviously, the state cuts, you know, as a city, we’re 
urging them to restore those. But just so you know too, the regional bond is being considered by ABAG in MTC 
to put on the ballot for November. I sit on ABAG as well as some of the, a couple of the members of the Board of 
Supervisors. So, that’s coming up as well. And I think it, you know, hopefully it will get on the ballot and pass. But 
that’s a, I think $1.9 billion that would be voted on by the, by the or it’s more than that. I think that the City gets 
about $1.2 million is estimated. So, that’s a significant funding source too that’s underway but none of these get 
us to the numbers we need to get to build the 40,000 units of affordable housing.  
President Diamond: 
So, Mr. Ionin, I think it would be helpful if we agendized an item that called for endorsement of the Board of 
Supervisors’ resolution. Okay. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Certainly.