7. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Imperial: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
8. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
So, I’ll start off. I have two questions, the first has to do with SB-9. I read several, I'm sure many of us read several 
articles this week describing a lower court ruling that overturned SB-9 as it applies to charter cities. We're a 
Charter City. I wonder if the City Attorney or the Planning Director want to comment on how that affects how 
we are proceeding. 
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney: 
Sure. Deputy City Attorney, Austin Yang. That case last week was from Redondo Beach which sued the state 
over the constitutionality of SB-9, which is, obviously, a state law requiring ministerial approvals of lots splits in 
two unit developments. It is just a trial court ruling so it has no precedential effect on the City of San Francisco.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I would just add, just from a policy standpoint, I mean, SB-9 obviously allows you to do more than one unit on 
a parcel that's zoned for otherwise single family. We've moved away from that, you know, anyway, so, I mean, 
even though this ruling you know, may ultimately have an impact on San Francisco, like we've moved locally to 
allow for up to four units on parcels that were formerly zoned for single family. I mean, it started a decade ago 
when we allowed for, allowed ADUs and continued with the four plex legislation you heard by Supervisor 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, May 2, 2024 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 8 
 
 
Mandelman and then subsequent fourplex, six plex legislation you heard from Supervisor Melgar and 
Supervisor Engardio. So, I would just say as a policy matter, some of these jurisdictions may not have done that. 
We've moved away from single-family zoning anyway. SB-9 kind of provided another path to densify a lot in a 
single-family district.  
President Diamond: 
Any questions from the other Commissioners on SB-9? I'll make one comment on what I read in the papers 
about the ruling. So, as someone who reads with great interest, all of the findings we make on every motion 
and every approval, I think that case is a testament to how important findings are and explaining your rationale. 
It seems like the state in its accompanying rationale for the legislation, did not go far enough in tying the 
legislation to the issues that it indicated were driving it. So, I think, you know, we should keep doing what we're 
doing, which is make sure our findings really support the decisions that we're making. Okay, my second 
question has to do with downtown recovery. It's been a while since we've had an update, and I'm wondering if 
we could schedule something in the next few weeks that, you know, lets us know where all of the multitude of 
actions that were in the mayor's recovery plan stand. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure, we'll work with OEWD to schedule that, because obviously they're involved on the economic development 
front. I'd say things are happening, so it's ripe to come back and talk to you about it. The Mayor was recently up 
in Sacramento to talk about two pieces of state legislation that allows for the use of tax increment financing for 
conversions. There's a bond that's kind of working its way through the city process at Capital Planning. And then 
we'll go to the Board of Supervisors that allows for some of the bonds to be, bond proceeds, to be used for public 
realm improvements that we talked about, like in the ULI report: Ali Plaza, Justin Herman Plaza could be used 
for, for that work. There's design work that's happening on Powell Street that's partly city funded, and then 
there are efforts that may be in the mayor's budget to, to help fill vacancies, especially along Powell Street and 
Union Square. So, I think it's a good time to have that discussion. We'll work to schedule that. 
President Diamond: 
Thank you.