9.   LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
 
10.  CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
 
• Draft Minutes for January 11, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore  
ABSENT: 
Diamond 
 
11.  COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
 
Vice President Moore: 
We have an unusual event today, and it's actually for me sitting here, not the most joyous one, but one for 
somebody else. It is Commissioner Tanner. As of last week, President Tanner leaving us and I would like her to 
take this opportunity under Commission Comments in recognition of her contributions and as a colleague to 
make comments that perhaps normally would appear under public comments. But we want to just basically 
honor her to make these comments today. 
 
Rachael Tanner: 
Thank you, Vice President Moore, and thank you all for letting me have a few moments to just talk with you and 
share a little bit about my journey to this point and the new role that I'll be having, and also to primarily share a 
lot of thanks and gratitude for all of you and for the Department. As many of you know, and as Secretary Ionin 
said, I have resigned from the Commission in order to take a position as the Director of Citywide Planning for the 
Planning Department here in San Francisco. And you know, it's something that I can't say I thought that I would 
be in this position if you'd asked me a year or a year and a half ago, I would said, no way. I do remember when 
AnMarie came here and told us that she was leaving it was like a lot of bittersweetness. I was like, oh my gosh, 
she's leaving. I was very happy to hear she's going to Treasure Island, so not very far, and a project that will help 
us meet our RHNA goals. So, very exciting to hear that. But I had this twinge of intuition also like, oh, you know, 
there's going to be an opening, maybe I should apply for this job when it opens, which I thought this little twinge 
of intuition, tooth and nail for a long time, I think until the last day that the applications were due in fact. And I 
had just left, probably a year or in some change before then, my job as the Assistant Director of Planning and 
Development Services for the City of Palo Alto and I had said, you know, never going back, I'm going to work for 
myself, like there's nothing like it. Like so much freedom, blah, blah, blah, all exciting. And it reminded me of 
another never say never moment that I had ten years earlier when I finished my grad school in Planning, I said, 
I'm never moving to California and I'm never working in government, which were the first two things I did 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 13 
 
simultaneously. Moved to California, moved to Long Beach, working for the City of Long Beach. And I should 
have learned my lesson then to never say never but it looks like I didn't. And the first thing I remember a couple 
months after working for the City of Long Beach for a while, I called my friend, my classmate Christine Carella, 
and I said, wow, this is really great. She was working for the City of New York and had worked in local government. 
I said, actually, you know, I thought I was going to be so boring and like, really just kind of like lame working for 
government but we were actually really doing a lot of really cool stuff. And she said to me, she said, yeah, 
government, local government, we put the rubber on the road like we do things for cities and for communities, 
and we make things happen. And I've always taken that with me.  
 
So, I hope to take that sense of service and duty into this next role as a planner and a practitioner being on this 
Commission with our city, going through all the challenges that it's going through, I just couldn't sit on the 
sidelines. Not that the Commission is sidelined, but professionally, I couldn't hold back, like wanting to roll up my 
sleeves and get even more engaged in helping to tackle the challenges that we have. So, I'm really grateful that 
I have the perspective of serving on the Commission, but now I can take, take my skills hopefully and use them 
in a different way, and really help to tackle the challenges that you all see in here and are working on as well. So, 
I just want to do a few thanks.  
 
First, thanks to Mayor Breed for nominating me to the Planning Commission and really thank for her support and 
for the Board of Supervisors who supported my nomination and allowed me to serve this last, my first term and 
this term. I want to also thank Joshua Switzky, who's been in the role of acting Director of Citywide in the division 
and really excited to have his skills and his great technical expertise and all his knowledge and his true dedication, 
not only to the Department, but really to San Francisco as a place. And we really are so lucky to have him.  
 
I want to thank Rich, of course, Director Hillis, thank you for giving me the opportunity and I hope that it is as 
pleasurable to work with you as it has been to be next to you as a Planning Commissioner on the dais. And then 
to the Commissioners, of course. First to Vice President Moore, you are such a treasure to our Commission, not 
just because of your tenure, but honestly, you have a really great memory. I can barely remember what we did 
last week and you remember cases from years ago and helped to remind us, and us, newer Commissioners of 
the history and the legacy of things and how we really need to not just look at one project, but look at how we're 
developing the city overall project by project. And I thank you for your incredible skills as an architect. I'm not a 
designer. And for the high standards that you hold this Commission and our city too. To Commissioner Koppell, 
thank you for reminding us that physical buildings are actual, real places that people work, and they're built by 
real men and women. Hopefully men and women who live and work in San Francisco and have gone through 
our training programs. So, it reminds me also, I think we might be due an update on the San Bruno project, so 
not sure when we want to bring that back to Commission, but we want to make sure all our folks are safe in the 
homes that they're in. Commissioner imperial, I want to thank you for always speaking up, for asking the tough 
questions. And for, in particular, being concerned about the people who are living inside of our buildings and 
making sure that they are always protected. And you have that sense of really how the system works, so you can 
really help shed light for some of us who may not know all of the ins and outs of tenancy and housing on what 
happens and how we should be addressing projects. To Commissioner Ruiz-- 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Ms. Tanner, you have 60 seconds. 
 
Rachael Tanner: 
Oh, sorry. My gosh. Okay, I only have two more things. Two more things. Well, there's like three more things. 
Commissioner Ruiz, you are one of our few, I think, born and raised Commissioner here. And just that's so, so 
valuable. You're so brilliant, so bright. You have a great current practice of serving the city in many ways and I 
hope you continue to do that long into the future. And, Commissioner Braun, I think you might be, no offense to 
anybody else, one of our most Planning nerd Commissioners, which is really great. I mean, when you said you 
visited every POPOS just for fun and the way that you bike around the city and you really experienced a lot of the 
things that we're doing at the Commission, I really admire that and hope to emulate that. Of course, there is 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 13 
 
Commission Secretary and all the staff, thank you for helping us run these wonderful hearings and all the work 
that goes in the background.  
 
Also to the City Attorneys, Attorney Jensen and Yang, and also all the Land Use team. Thanks for giving us advice 
and trying to steer us in the right direction, even if sometimes we don't always listen to what you say. We do 
appreciate it, nonetheless. So with that, I won't be far. You know how to get a hold of me, and you may be hearing 
from me more frequently now in this new role than you did when I was one of a Commissioner with you. So 
again, thank you, Vice President Moore for this time, I appreciate it. 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Thank you. Thank you also for acknowledging all of us. Much appreciated. And we will continue with 
Commissioner Comments. I'd like to start today, being bombarded with letters and newspaper articles about the 
State Density Bonus and upzoning, pros and cons, cons and pros. I would like to share a couple of thoughts with 
you because looking back, I was starting to reflect on what is, what are really objective standards for the City. 
And the first thing that came to mind is actually Lawrence Kornfield, who was the original seismic, the City 
Administrator for Seismic Safety. And I want to make sure as we are considering upzoning and taller buildings 
that we are aware of many guidelines which we currently are using for exemptions and concessions, that these 
guidelines are actually based in significant science about seismic safety. And the particular guideline I want to 
address is tower separation. Tower separation started originally with creating light and air and leaving a lot of 
sky visible as the city was going from a low medium rise city into a taller high-rise city. However, that was 
superseded after Loma Prieta when seismic safety and seismic safety standards started to be really tightened up 
including the fact that tower separation is an extremely important element to keeping towers from swaying into 
each other during an earthquake. And I would like the Department to make a note that I believe that many of 
other standards are anchored in life safety.  
 
The second thing I would like to talk about is involving the fire marshal in discussion about building height and 
building use relative to height. Office buildings are tall buildings occupied during the day. Tall residential 
buildings are an altogether separate matter because they are occupied partially during the day, but mostly doing 
sleeping and rest hours. And empirical earthquake science has shown that the majority of earthquakes happen 
during night hours, and that brings with it the issue of safe building exiting. And the taller the building 
particularly if you wake up in the middle of the night and be asked to leave the building, there is no elevator, but 
you'll be basically running in your pajamas or whatever you are wearing or not wearing down the stairs to get to 
safety. And there are many practitioners who actually question that residential buildings above a certain height 
are safe. I'm not an expert on the subject matter but have been involved in sufficiently enough discussions to be 
concerned about it.  
 
So, what I'm asking the Department, one, use those standards which have been developed with a lot of technical 
and on-site knowledge in the city. There are plenty of experts in fire safety, building safety and seismic safety 
around to help you stand strong on objective standards and what are really objective standards and life safety 
are. So those are my comments for the day. I'd like to hang that out for anybody to comment on independently 
inviting to the Department, but I'd like to toss it out as a bigger discussion as we are being further constrained in 
having to give up, give up standards that have shaped the city in the way it is. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, Vice President Moore. Actually want to extend my congratulations and want to make a professional 
and personal comment to former President Tanner.  First, I would like to congratulate you in this role as Citywide 
Director of Planning. This has been actually also a big concern when we have, disposition has been, you know, 
vacated. And I think you are a perfect candidate for this role as well and I'm glad that you took on this position. 
Also, so I will definitely miss your leadership in this Commission as the board President and also as a 
Commissioner itself. I think you have greatly contributed in our Commission in terms of the issues that are very 
complicated. And I think you, you know, I mean, we all have very challenging positions in here in terms of 
balancing different perspectives. So, I just want to extend that to you as a public comment. And also, I would like 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 13 
 
to, you know, work with you in, you know, and see you here still in the, in the Planning Department and the 
Commission. So, congratulations.  
 
And for Commissioner Moore, in terms of the, you know, the comments that you have provided, I think those are 
very sound. And I'm looking forward if there's going to be some, some form of subcommittees that we can form 
in so that those kind of, you know, projects or I guess, ideas that we're working on in the Commission, will really 
be implemented and be really pushed into the Department. I think, yes. And I've also been getting a lot of 
comments in terms of the concern on the west side upzoning process and of course, it's going to be part of the, 
you know, of the process as we go through here as that's going to be part of a big project for this year as well. So, 
so yeah, I probably we will, I will have to connect with you in terms of like how we can work in terms of the 
subcommittees or -- 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I would definitely like to involve President Diamond in that and I'm sure she will be very open. She had 
mentioned it before, so we can pick that up again next week under Commission Comment. And I would like 
everybody also to opine on that. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Braun: 
Yes.  I just wanted to also extend my thanks, my congratulations to former Commissioner Tanner. You know, I 
think we're all going to really miss your incisive analysis and your fair approach, especially as President of the 
Commission. You know, I was thinking about what you just said, and I'm now thinking if we ever need some sort 
of massive problem solve, you should say I'll never, I'll never try to address that, because apparently it's exactly 
what you're gonna end up doing. You know, I've had the privilege of working with Miss Tanner also in the role 
of a consultant to you as staff at the City of Palo Alto. And I know that you do amazing work, and I was really 
impressed and appreciated your work on those projects together. And there are plenty people in the Planning 
Department who, you know, who might have been in the Department longer, who also worked with you. And 
so it's exciting to have you back on staff in San Francisco. And I'm really excited to now, in a way, work with you 
on a third sort of role across from each other. So but, but congratulations and thanks so much. 
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Well, as bummed as I am for the loss, it brings back a similar phone call I received a number of years ago from a 
then Commissioner, Rich Hillis. So got the phone call, he was leaving. Equally as bummed then, but then, you 
know, heard he was applying for the director's spot, so, Rich's example. And then also Rodney Fong, who was 
here for a number of years and left to just stay here in the City, taking over the Chamber of Commerce. Glad to 
see you are staying here and staying close so we can still lean on you for your exceptional knowledge and just 
the whole land use and construction landscape. Thanks again. 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Yeah, I just want to follow in the congratulations and say that I started working with, Commissioner, or former 
Commissioner Tanner, when I was doing organizing in the Tenderloin. And there was some, you know, concerns 
around specific land use changes in that neighborhood. And that was you know, one of my, I wouldn't say firsts, 
but probably, you know, biggest experiences working on land use issues and communicating with 
Commissioners. And Commissioner Tanner had such a welcoming and also just care and concern to really learn 
about you know, what the community, you know, wants to see and what their priorities are. And so I just very 
much appreciated that. And then, you know, when I came on to the Commission, I just really took notice of your 
leadership and how you truly listen to the comments that are said during Commission, which I think is incredibly 
important. You really make people feel heard and it really shows in the comments that you've made and I just 
hope that I could be half the Commissioner that you were on, on, on this Commission. So, thank you. And I think, 
you know, you're also perfect for the position, and I can't wait to see what you will accomplish. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 13