8. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 20, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 10 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
9. 
CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for June 6, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
So 
10. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Koppel: 
So, today I do have some slightly unfortunate news.  Seeing as though my term will be ending up shortly, I’ve 
decided to take the numerous hours and days that we spend looking at the packet, working on the Commission 
items, to focus more on my day job, which is and has been focusing on the electrical industry that I'm still a 
strong part of. So, today I am announcing this may be my last hearing. If we have more, I'll be here until then, 
but it is time for me to just focus and put my time and energy where it belongs.  I would like to say a number of 
thanks.   
First of all, to some fellow commissioners, ex-president Rodney Fong and now Director Rich Hillis who really 
taught me how things were done when I was early, early on here and didn't know how to use this microphone 
properly so thank you to them. I want to commend Dennis Richard for bringing some truth to this commission 
and I also want to thank Commissioner Moore for actually listening to me. So, I used to stay on the other side 
on that microphone and she listened to me when I had stuff to say and concerns, so thank you.  Also wanted to 
thank the President of the San Francisco Building Trades Council, Larry Mazzola, for his leadership, my bosses at 
the Local 6 Union hall and through the Electrical Contractor Association for allowing me the time to put towards 
this very strenuous position.   
My apprenticeship training program that’s here on Mission Street in the city, really proud of that place and I’m 
still a proud graduate of their and wanted to just give a shout out to all the working-class residents of the city 
that get up and do a job and go to work.  I was a second-year apprentice working at a temporary Palace Fine 
Arts building, carrying around a 12-foot ladder, a 12-foot wooden ladder, which is extremely heavy, wearing a 
hard hat, wearing safety glasses, wearing a dust mask, wearing my overalls, wearing my tool belt, bringing up 
power tools to the top of the ladder, installing light fixtures and just said to myself, wow, this is some real work. 
This is some hard work. As the sweat dripped down my head as I saw--as the days and months and weeks gone, 
all the scars that built up on my hands building this city. I actually earned my paycheck, earned a chance to stay 
in the city, earned a chance to buy a house in the city.  I took the bus or rode my bike to every job site I went on.  
I had apartment on Hayes Street, eventually bought my house in the Sunset, but I will never take for granted 
the people who risk their lives when they show up to work every day, whether its construction workers, firemen, 
police officers, especially those electricians and elevator mechanics we just-it is a little more dangerous the stuff 
we have  to deal with and I still think to this day we are taken for granted.  
So, keep showing up for work everybody and all those contractors that employ these workers.  We don't just 
become electricians or construction workers; we have to get trained. We have to get trained properly at a 
training center that teaches you properly how to do these dangerous jobs so you can properly earn your 
paycheck. So, throughout the tenure of my career up here I kind of like had some reoccurring themes that I’d 
like for hopefully you guys to carry on and a lot of it has do with something that is in the general plan. It is under 
the Commerce and Industry section, and it makes a really important distinction between residents and tourist 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 20, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 10 
 
and what I’ve always thought, what I’ve always felt since day 1 is we should be prioritizing our local businesses, 
our local residents, our local construction workers to build our city. I don't think it is a good idea to have 
contractors from outside of the city. I don't think it is good idea to bring in workers from outside of the city, and 
yeah, a lot of our workers were displaced, they used to live here and if someone who used to live here and was 
displaced, I don't think they are tourists.  So, again hats off to all the people in disadvantaged neighborhoods. 
They are trying to get into these programs and get a career.  I always have been on your side helping you along 
the way and I still will be. And I challenge who ever replaces me to bring even half the stylish suit game that I 
have been bringing here this whole time. Challenge. Please, even half the quality. So, enough about me. That's 
it.  We got a hearing to do. 
President Diamond: 
Commissioner Koppel, I'm so sorry to hear this news.  Your voice has been so valuable on this Commission.  As 
you just said, your attention to the needs of the people who work here has been consistent and persistent 
throughout my five years on the Commission, and I have appreciated the focus you have had on that issue and 
making sure that it is front and center in our decision making. I also want to thank you for how welcoming you 
were to me personally when I first joined the Commission. I really appreciated the reach-out and the warm 
embrace of my entry into the Commission.  It was just really, really lovely. I just think that your absence will be 
felt in a very, very strong way.   
Commissioner Moore: 
Commissioner Koppel, Joel, thank you for your service. What most impressed me about you is the consistency 
for what you stand and for what you taught me through your consistency and your unwavering clarity when 
you speak about labor.  I do appreciate that much more than perhaps I can summarize in the few minutes I have, 
but with it came not just having a position on something, with it came who you really are. Transparent, clear 
and principled. Something I really, really appreciate in your work and your consistent standing by issues when 
you need to.  Again, you will be missed. We have worked together for many many many years and I always have 
to answer my question right after you, so I will probably be hearing the resonance of your name for a long time 
to come.  It is hard to say something really profound and meaningful but just let me say thank you and thank 
you for your service.   
Commissioner Braun: 
I just want to echo the thanks, Commissioner Koppel, and how much I appreciate your long tenure on this 
Commission. As you said, it is a very big commitment and you have done it for a long time.  And I guess it is a 
well-earned break to focus on your work. You know I really valued your perspective in the time that I have been 
on the Commission with you and your commitment to both labor as well as the importance of safety and 
ensuring the safety of the projects that come before us. And so, I'm definitely going to miss having you on the 
Commission and thanks again for your service.   
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, Commissioner Koppel, and I really appreciate the friendliness when I came on as a Commissioner. I 
also appreciate your perspective when it comes to safety. I remember the San Bruno, you were really really mad 
about that, and it is something that is important that public to know. And also, when you speak about labor, 
actually there are times I would like yes, he's right about this. And also, your perspective on the cannabis.  I think 
those are really important issues as well. So, I really appreciate your presence here in the Commission and I wish 
you could have stayed longer.  I know you have tenure that have longer, but I will miss your presence and your 
voice. Thank you.   
Commissioner Williams: 
Joel, sorry to see you go.  You know, I relate to you a lot being in the trades, building trades, coming up here in 
San Francisco. And even though you are from the Sunset, I’m from the Mission and Excelsior, but we have a lot 
of commonalities, you know, like the time you told me about that your baseball going to Wolfs batting cages 
there on Mission Street, I also went there as a youngster.  And so, I appreciate the connections that we have.  
And I appreciate and respect everything you do for the electrical union and for the apprenticeship.  It means a 
lot to you.  That means a lot to me too. And so, I appreciate everything you brought to the Commission, even 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 20, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 10 
 
though I wasn’t able to be with you, sit with you for long period of time, I respect you and I wish you the best 
moving forward. Whatever you do I know you will be successful in whatever you choose to do because you are 
just that guy. And I'm going to miss those suits. Thank you. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes, especially the green, St. Paddy’s day, but thank you for everything. It has been a pleasure serving with you 
both on the Commission and Joel was the President when we were out during Covid and led us through. So, I 
think we talked every day practically during Covid from home and managing that situation and managing us 
through it tremendously and I thank you. Anyone you speak on this Commission; you generally see everybody 
else nod their head.  I tried to think of when a time that folks disagreed with you, it is very rare because I think 
you put San Francisco first in all your decisions and San Franciscans whether working San Franciscans or 
residents. So, I think it is something that is going to be difficult if not impossible to fill and thank you just for 
bringing that perspective to the Commission and all you have done.  Much appreciated.   
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I'll chime in as well. Joel, thank you for your almost 8 years of service.  Former Commission President Koppel.  If 
there is nothing further Commissioners, if you could also further indulge me and just that we have nothing on 
your advanced calendar for next Thursday’s hearing and if there is no opposition, we'll send that Cancellation 
Notice for next Thursday as well as the July 4th holiday, so you are given a two-week break.   
President Diamond: 
  Thank you.