9. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President Diamond: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
10. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for April 25, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
So, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
11. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
I want to start. First, by welcoming Commissioner So. We are so delighted to have you join us. You bring, 
experience from the Historic Preservation Commission, the Arts Commission, Transportation Commission, as 
well as your background as an architect and experience with the city. I feel like your skill set will be well used, 
and we're just delighted to have you here. And to also have for the first time in a long time, a full complement 
of Commissioners. So, welcome. I also want to note that today we are doing a commendation for Environmental 
Planner, Rick Cooper, who has been with us for 25 years. Director Hillis, do you want to make some remarks? 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, May 9, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 12 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. And Rick, why don't you come up, because it is, it's an honor to have Rick here. He's been legendary in the 
in the office. He's been with us for 25 years. I met him, early on in my career, too, when I was at OEWD and we 
worked on Yerba Buena projects together. Rick has been in Environmental Planning for 25 years. He's worked 
on projects you have all seen and voted on Park Merced, Stonestown, Treasure Island. Some we’ll be seeing 
again or for the first time here today. So, he -- I think this is the fifth or so kind of ceremony we've had for Rick, 
which is fitting because he's just a wonderful guy and everybody likes working with him. He's calm, he's 
easygoing, he gives great advice and does great work for our team. So, I just want to thank Rick, wish him all 
the luck in his retirement and give him the floor. We have a certificate, Rick, which I think you get 25% off any 
over the counter permit if you present this in the future. So, congratulations on that. But, yeah, just all the best 
and it's been a great pleasure working with you. 
Rick Cooper: 
Thank you so much, Director Hillis. Commissioners,  I have, this is the umpteenth ceremony I think we've had in 
my honor, but I just wanted to say, as I said to the staff, that, you know, all of us who are involved in this and 
you, Commissioners, and all the Commissioners that preceded you that I worked with, the staff, the citizens, 
we're all, you know, working on the same objective, which is have a great city, which we do. We have a 
wonderful historic fabric, but we're also very modern. And I know that we have, you know, faced difficulties 
over the years, but we've always emerged stronger and better. And it's been nothing but, you know, an honor 
to be able to be a part of that. So, thank you very much. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you, Mr. Cooper. It has been a long time and it’s amazing to see you here. There’re not as many planners 
who hang around for 25 years, but it’s great to hear and I love to [inaudible]. But on another note, I like to 
welcome Commissioner So, welcome. Looking very much forward to having seven people to discuss all the 
many issues we do. And I think your background and experience brings a lot to what we’ll be endeavoring on. 
So, I look forward to broadening our discussions as we move forward. I wanted to make a suggestion to the 
Commission and to staff. We received a letter from Patterson O’Neill, which you probably also, regarding 2861-
2899 San Bruno and the adjoining [inaudible] street property. For us who have been on the Commission longer, 
including everybody who has come on interim, knows this project and the more darker sides of this project. I 
don’t have a better word, and I in, in the approvals in November 23, we had requested that the project 
representatives gives us an update. The letter that we received seems a little brief, and we would like to suggest 
as a Commission, that the applicant, represented by Patterson O’Neill, give us a slightly more detailed overview 
as we move forward. One, to get the rest of the Commission who will continue to be stewards of this project, 
see it with more knowledge over time, but also for us who have been on it for much longer to get a more, a clear 
bearing on how we move forward. So, thank you and I look forward to seeing that scheduled in the near future. 
President Diamond: 
The only modification to that is that you said a slightly more detailed elaboration. I would like a fulsome report. 
I believe that we identified any number of issues and concerns on numerous occasions, and I would like a very 
detailed report that indicates the status of each of those items. I don’t know, Director Hillis, how and you want 
to proceed with that is -- 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
It’s already in the works. So, we will send them a letter in response to the letter they sent you, asking for more 
detail. There is more detail so I’m not sure why they did report kind of the scant amount of information they did, 
but we will ask them for more detail. We’ll provide that to you. And if you don’t think that’s satisfactory, we can 
go back to them.  We can have a hearing, you know, we can take any course at that point, but we will send them 
a letter asking, telling them that that response wasn’t sufficient and provide additional detail. 
President Diamond: 
Okay, as a first step, then getting a more detailed letter would be, I think, an appropriate thing step to take.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, May 9, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 12 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah.