5. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner So: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
6. 
CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for May 2, 2024 
• Draft Minutes for May 23, 2024 – Closed Session 
• Draft Minutes for May 23, 2024 – Regular  
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
So, Williams, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
Braun 
7. 
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
So, I’d like to start. We have received from staff a copy of a letter written by counsel for the San Bruno project 
which was in response to our Condition 18 on our CU Motion of Approval, which required a report in every 6 
months on compliance and the status of the project. I, they started by saying, the attorneys seemed to think 
this was a somewhat burdensome requirement and asked us to consider lowering the barre on that. I don’t feel 
any need to do that. I think given the circumstances that the 6-month check-in is entirely appropriate and 
recommend that we continue to do that. The condition also allows us to call for a public hearing if we think it’s 
important based upon the contents of the letter that we received. So, I had one question for staff. And that 
will—your answer will determine how I feel about having a public hearing in response to this letter. One of the 
primary concerns, I recall, of all of the Commissioners was what happens to the tenants during this time period 
when they need to reduce, well to eliminate the illegal units, some of which have been occupied by tenants. 
The letter say they currently have twelve tenants, and my recollection is that there had been at least fifteen at 
some point and maybe more. And I’m wondering, Ms. Watty, if you can suggest a procedure for how we ask the 
project sponsor in their 6-month report and certainly as additional information for this one to keep us better 
posted on what’s happening to the tenants.  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure, absolutely.  In the Executive Summary, in the final packet the day that you all approved this project, there 
was what I think was a very helpful chart in there that went building by building, floor by floor, and enumerated 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 6, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 11 
 
which units were vacant and which were occupied. I think it could be really helpful to have that as part of the 
standard update as sort of a baseline of here was the state of the building at approval and here is it now, and if 
there is any difference from then to now, if there are fewer tenants in there, describing why. You know, did 
those folks leave on their own behalf, was there a negotiated leave from the property owner, if so, what were 
the terms of those conditions if they are allowed to share. But I think describing if somebody left, you know, sort 
of what is the disposition of that family, you know, was it a family, did they have protected tenants, were there 
children, but just a little bit of a description of who left. So, again, I think we have a good baseline of who is there 
and so to understand what that delta is between the original hearing and the 6-month update. Obviously, this 
is the first one so it will be just those two comparisons. And I would think at least going forward, it would be 
helpful to still always have that reference back to the original and sort of on a rolling list of sort of the 6-month 
changes in tenancy. There has been a reduction in tenants from where we were on the original but again, I don’t 
think we, as the City staff, know why. So, I think that if nothing else could be a helpful understanding. I do think 
what was called out in the letter sort of does demonstrate that right now they are not yet at the stage where 
tenants are required under the phasing or tenants sort of phasing plan to be notified yet because they don’t 
have an issued permit yet. And as you recall, the first building that they’ll have to work on is the most interior 
which is currently vacant. So, they can do the work without having to displace anyone since it’s already a vacant 
building. And then the idea was they will notify people on the first building if they want to move. So, that will 
be the first set of tenants that are impacted, are the tenants on sort of the corner. But I think in, for your next 6-
month update to kind of get that rolling list of as compared to when approved, what’s changed.         
President Diamond: 
So, I think that’s a great idea and I would appreciate it if you would go back to them now and say, as part of this 
first 6-month update, we want to know what happened to the tenants that have left. I don’t know if any of the 
other Commissioners feel like at this point, you want to schedule a public hearing or if you want to see the 
response to that tenant inquiry first. So, I’m looking for your input.  
Commissioner Moore: 
The first thing I would appreciate is for all of us, memory fades very quickly, this was supposed probably one of 
the most painful things the Department and each of us on the various Commissions who have been in the cycle 
of this particular project have experienced, to bring up a brief update for our new Commissioners who were not 
in the middle of this painful sorting out of absolutely incredible challenges. That would be very helpful as 
probably enough institutional memory enough, put memos and other things. To briefly do that, that also gives 
the public the benefit to basically recollect of where we are. I think the timing of a full-fledged meeting to ask 
the attorneys to come back and report could perhaps set a couple of months based on what you are describing. 
And I fully agree with you on what I read out of the letter but then ask for very specific reporting that gets into 
detail and accountability on a number of issues that are completely being shoved under the table and what this 
letter indicates to us. So, I think that is a two-fold answer. Whenever you do the update, I’ll leave that up to you. 
It could be you calling in our new Commissioners or do it in a small group, whatever, whatever suits you. 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure. And certainly, we’re happy to give updates to any of the Commissioners who were not here. I think it 
would be Commissioner Williams and So who were the only ones, right? The rest of, yeah, those two. So, we’re 
happy to give you an update on what that project history was to give you a little context. Happy to do that. And 
happy to relay that information to the applicant.    
President Diamond: 
You know, at the same time, I will say the tone of the attorney’s letter gave the impression they thought this 
requirement was quite burdensome and I think you should relay them that given the facts behind this that I 
think the 6-month update is entirely appropriate and that a constructive attitude would be really appreciated. 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
More than happy to relate that.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 6, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 11 
 
President Diamond: 
Thank you. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah, I’d like to, you know, in terms of having a hearing or informational hearing about this, given that we still 
need more information, I think that’s when we can have the more in-depth informational hearing and yeah, I’m 
looking forward to have it. Perhaps they can give us you know, response in the next month. So, yeah. I would 
be happy to have an informational hearing when we have all of the information. Especially, of course, because 
again, there are lawyers involved, to get rid of tenants and perhaps also client-attorney privilege in it that I’m 
not sure what they can be shared. Again, but you know, again realizing what are the things that need to be 
shared with the Commission. But I do have, you know, of course my concern is where the tenants at this point 
too. Thank you.  
Commissioner Moore: 
I want to briefly say something regarding the expressed concern of Commissioner Koppel at the time, like life 
safety is a big issue on this project. And I think any update from our qualified staff at DBI who helped dive into 
the background of this project would be very helpful, because I share that deep concern with Commissioner 
Koppel.   
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
And maybe my suggestion on that, right now DBI has not yet concluded their plan check review of the permits. 
So, that is literally mid-stream right now. So, I think what might be helpful is for us to continue with that process 
and when the permits are done being reviewed, that might be a good time for us to sort of circle back on that 
and get a better understanding of what happened. Did DBI ask for changes, you know, I’m sure they have done 
a really deep dive to ensure life safety. So, I think that would be a good milestone once they actually get through, 
get all the revisions they need and get it to a point where they feel it complies with the building code. I think 
that will be a good milestone for them to maybe reflect back on what they are asking for. And so again, I think 
if there are any other specific questions that you think this letter was deficient in, in any way, it will be helpful 
to get a lot of specifics from you. But certainly, that comparison of tenant occupancy and why, we will for sure 
relay back to the applicants. Thanks.