8. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Braun: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
9. 
CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
 
• Draft Minutes for October 17, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted as Amended 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
 
• Draft Minutes for October 24, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 7, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 11 
 
10. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Williams: 
I’d like to welcome Commissioner Imperial back and it’s good to see you. That’s all. 
Commissioner Braun: 
I just want to recognize that in late October, the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development recognized San Francisco with its Pro Housing designation and I think this is a really big deal for 
the city. And so, I would like to just appreciate all the work that has gone into getting to this point with all the 
public who have been engaged in related processes, all the work of this Commission, Planning Department staff, 
and the elected officials in making this possible. And so an exciting time, the Pro Housing designation provides 
access to a limited full grant funding. But I think more importantly, it allows us to improve our score and receive 
priority processing for applications to a lot of state funding sources including sources related to affordable 
housing and infill infrastructure. So, I’m very excited that we’ve gotten to this point and I’m looking forward to 
continuing to move forward.   
Commissioner Moore: 
[inaudible]  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioner Moore, can you turn your microphone on. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I’m sorry, I did not know. Did you hear me and if not, I will repeat – that we should potentially expect some push 
back from Washington particularly regarding infrastructure and other things that are important to California. 
We are the largest state and most contributing state at the federal government and I do believe that as of news 
in the paper, push back to California particularly Governor Newsom has already been significantly expressed. 
So, I want all of us in our optimism of how we move forward to keep that in mind and particularly for those who 
are close to information that may be proprietary, keep us informed of what you’re hearing.