7. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Imperial: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
8. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
So, I’ll start off. I have two questions, the first has to do with SB-9. I read several, I'm sure many of us read several 
articles this week describing a lower court ruling that overturned SB-9 as it applies to charter cities. We're a 
Charter City. I wonder if the City Attorney or the Planning Director want to comment on how that affects how 
we are proceeding. 
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney: 
Sure. Deputy City Attorney, Austin Yang. That case last week was from Redondo Beach which sued the state 
over the constitutionality of SB-9, which is, obviously, a state law requiring ministerial approvals of lots splits in 
two unit developments. It is just a trial court ruling so it has no precedential effect on the City of San Francisco.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I would just add, just from a policy standpoint, I mean, SB-9 obviously allows you to do more than one unit on 
a parcel that's zoned for otherwise single family. We've moved away from that, you know, anyway, so, I mean, 
even though this ruling you know, may ultimately have an impact on San Francisco, like we've moved locally to 
allow for up to four units on parcels that were formerly zoned for single family. I mean, it started a decade ago 
when we allowed for, allowed ADUs and continued with the four plex legislation you heard by Supervisor 

San Francisco Planning Commission