4. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Braun: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 11, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 3 of 6 
 
5. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Watch out for Golden Gate park everybody. I just got my presale tickets last night. The new concert line up is 
amazing. I cannot wait to see all the activity heading towards the Sunset and Richmond District. Little point of 
privilege, I saw System of a Down in the late 90’s at Transmission Theatre on 11th and Folsom, I saw Deftones on 
their first tour on Bottom of the Hill. They are both headlining this amazing concert coming up in the park, so 
hats off to Supervisors Engardio and Chan. Just get ready for the businesses to be thriving. There's gonna be so 
many people down there and it's just gonna be a huge injection of energy and economy for the city. Maybe we 
can have more of these in Union Square, Justin Herman Plaza, the Giant’s stadium. Not just the Chase Arena, but, 
I mean, let's, let's utilize our outdoor venues and get people back in the city please. 
Commissioner Moore: 
As we are weakened we got struggling, was looking at flats. I took a letter that came in from Ms. Schuttish to re-
read the Planning Commission's Resolution on October 12, 2017. And I want this particular Commission to go 
through that very carefully with the guidance from the Planning Department, so that we all have a bearing in 
the importance of protecting flats and have a common understanding that these are policies that not only guides 
the Department of how it chaperones people through with flat applications, but for us to have a unified standing 
in how to judge this applications. That is my ask, and I hope that you all agree. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
So, I have a question Vice President Moore on your comment. Do you recommend for the Planning Commission 
to have itemized this on the agenda in the future or how do you want this to move forward?  
Commissioner Moore: 
Suggesting that we have A discussion implies that we cannot have a conversation about the details of how to 
do it but I think I would look towards the City Attorney in support of with Ms. Watty that we schedule that as a 
discussion here with full background and the insights of the Department of how that has not been working well 
enough for the past few years. 
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney: 
Sure, Deputy City Attorney, Austin Yang. That's correct Vice President Moore. There's been no agenda item 
noticed to discuss the residential flats. You know, in these Commissioner Comments/Questions, Directors 
Reports are able to have a summary discussion or about Land Use item that may be relevant but if you want to 
have a more in depth conversation, we would do that as an agenda item.  
Commissioner Moore: 
That is my ask. Yes. 
Commissioner Braun: 
If my recollection is correct the Flat Policy is an item that is supposed to, to some extent, come forward as part of 
codifying some of the policies. I remember seeing this on, on prior documentation related to housing element 
implementation. Ms. Watty, do you…? 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Yes, you are correct. It is one of the action items in the Housing Element. So, it, I forget off the top of my head 
what the time frame was for us to work through that. But it is, it is there. So, I mean, unless there's a desire to 
have this sort of, out of order, we're happy to, you know, I think there's the intention to come forward with 
Housing Element discussion topics periodically moving forward. And so, as part of that, we can kind of highlight 
where that specific discussion will be is planned to be slated in. We can have discussion about whether or not 
that's too far out or if you want to make timing adjustments.  
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 11, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 6 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to see it independently come forward. Particularly because it has been a strong piece of work of 
previous Commissions. And for that reason, I do not just want to streamline it into the overall housing discussion, 
but sees as a clear tool for us to fully understand, and then again, ultimately successfully apply it in the discussions 
about the Housing Element,  
President Diamond: 
So, why don't I suggest at the next officers meeting that we work with staff to figure out what the best timing to 
schedule that? Okay. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Yes. That’s fine. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If there's nothing for the Commissioners, I’ll only mention that there are no items on the April 18th agenda or 
Advanced Calendar and so we sent out a cancellation notice. So, we have a unexpected break next week.