8. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner McGarry: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 24, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 10 
 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
9. 
CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for October 10, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
Imperial 
10. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President So: 
So, I'd like to share something with everyone today.  We received a letter from the Mission communities 
regarding to the 2588 Mission Street project, a couple weeks ago, and subsequently, myself and Commissioner 
Williams, went and had a virtual meeting with the community stakeholders, and we discussed about two things. 
We discussed about potentially creating a subcommittee of some type to continue the dialog of understanding 
and their concerns, and also considering to postpone our hearing on that project from November to mid-
January. So, I’d like to hear if any of my fellow Commissioners and staff have any comment to it. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I think that’s fine. We'll work with you all to try to figure out the best way to have a meeting in the Mission, 
whether that's a subcommittee meeting or a community meeting. I think there was leaning towards a 
subcommittee meeting, and we will postpone and find a time in Septem-- in January for the hearing. And 
potentially that community meeting to happen prior to that. So, we'll work to figure out the dates, but we'll let 
the sponsor know that this is being continued till January. 
President So: 
That would be great. Thank you.   
Commissioner Williams: 
Just I know that the Mission community was given an option. And so I don't know if they've gotten back to you 
yet on that, but I just wanted to thank you for having that meeting. I think it was, you know, very respectful, 
given all the circumstances around what happened at that site and to the community. And so, I just want to 
publicly thank you for doing that. Thank you. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I wanted to thank Director Hillis for continuing items 15 a and b. It was something that I spent a lot of time trying 
to understand and embrace. Obviously, coming out of the tradition of a very, very lengthy planning process for 
Central SoMa, this is particularly appropriate, particularly while everything seems to be heading in the right 
direction. Thinks there are a couple of questions that would be lengthy to have today, but perhaps we can talk 
about some informally off the record to make this a slightly more principled based guidance to future 
development. Thank you.   
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 24, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 10