10. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Braun: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
11. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for July 25, 2024 
• Draft Minutes for August 1, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES: 
 
Campbell, McGarry, So, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore 
NAYS:  
None 
12. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Vice President Moore: 
I would like to take this opportunity to say hello. Welcome back from a wonderful summer break, and I want to 
welcome a full commission, particularly our new commissioner, Commissioner Campbell, and our other 
commissioner who we have only met briefly, Mr. McGarry. I am glad to see a full commission and we are ready 
to roll up our sleeves and positively enter into the challenges that are ahead of us. Wonderful things are 
happening. The city looks active, the city looks beautiful. Tourists everywhere doing the kinds of things that a 
well managed, good looking city does and I can only say it was wonderful to come home and see that there are 
so many changes that have occurred during those five weeks that we were all away. I want to just expand, 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 14 
 
extend the welcome to our new group. We will all be finding our way to work as a successful team, and I see a 
couple of comments. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you.  Welcome everyone and welcome, Commissioner Campbell, and I'm looking forward to working 
with you as well, in the, as the, we have the full Planning Commission. I, I want to follow up on the, on the, on 
the hearing that I requested last, last July before we went for a vacation. And I just would like to get some sort 
of follow up with the Planning Department as to what are the steps. And, you know, because I follow up, I 
requested for hearings for anti-displacement strategies and small businesses that I hope to have in September. 
But since I know we've had this conversation, but I also want the public to know as to what the Planning 
Department is doing right now in terms of preparing for that.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. Happy to answer. Yes, we’ve agreed we should have hearings on both those issues. As you know, on that 
on the tenant displacement issue and kind of rent control and how that affects our work, we did have a hearing 
a couple of months ago. I know there are new commissioners so we're happy to repeat that. And especially a 
lot of issues have come up as to how these relate to the rezoning. And some of these issues go beyond the 
rezoning, right. Because issues around tenant displacement and small business retention can happen in areas 
where slated to rezone, but also areas that we have rezoned or haven't rezoned in the past. So but I think it's 
important to do that in the context of the rezoning. And those hearings were on the list of things we wanted to 
tackle as part of that. So I think the short answer is yes. It's just timing that I think we want to get right. And I 
think you had a conversation with Commissioner Tanner and maybe having a couple community meetings, 
even before we met to get some more context and understanding about what the public wants to hear. So, yes, 
you know, unlikely now to happen in September, but as part of the cadence of rezoning hearings that we want 
to have probably starting later this year, definitely have both a hearing on small business in our strategies 
around small businesses as well as, tenant protection and, and you know, how that those are local laws work 
with state laws to retain existing rent-controlled housing stock. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
So right now, in terms of the planning, kind of like planning for the, you know, for this series of meetings, is 
there, is there can that be part of a, you know, a report as well in terms of the when are we in terms of these 
series of my understanding is that there's going to be a series of meetings with different agencies and also 
organizations as well, or community organizations as well, can we have that some sort of an update? 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, yeah.  We can give an update on kind of what our expected timeline is for those series of hearings, because 
there were issues around Preservation, State Density Bonus, and how state laws, which have recently changed 
to work with our local laws and how we're proposing they work as part of the rezoning. So there was a list of 
kind of hearings we wanted to tackle. But what we're happy to send a memo or talk about it here as to what the 
how we anticipate those rolling out and then you can, happy to get your input on changes you may want to 
make to [inaudible] 
Commissioner Imperial: 
A memo or part of the Director's report will be great. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure.  It could be a memo, and then I'll talk about it. But happy to do that.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you.  
Vice President Moore: 
Before I turn over the microphone to my other fellow commissioners, I want to not be a miss mentioning that 
has been brought to my attention that commissioners have questions about successorship when a president or 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 14 
 
a commissioner leaves by reasons of for personal resignation or others. This is an interesting question that is 
actually anchored in the rules and regulations that govern this commission. I myself don't have all the answers, 
but I'm astutely aware that we all share the question of successorship. So I have been talking with Director Hillis 
and suggesting that we calendar an item on next week's agenda for all of us to discuss our understanding of 
the rules and get guidance to properly proceed based on those rules that govern this commission. 
Commissioner Braun: 
Well, first of all, I just want to say welcome to Commissioner Campbell. It's great to have you here. Great to have 
a full commission in place again. So I am one of those commissioners who's had, you know, some questions, 
trying to figure out how our rules relate to the situation we've recently found ourselves in, in which the president 
of the commission that we all collectively, as a commission, voted for as president, departs the commission and 
whether or not there's that question as raised by Chair Moore about the succession that might occur at that 
time. And so I, I am curious to hear just at least an introduction to this topic. If the deputy City Attorney has any 
perspective or analysis of the rules as they relate to this. 
Kirsten Jensen, City Attorney: 
Thank you, Commissioner Braun. The commission rules provide that upon resignation or unavailability of the 
president, as you know, the vice president will, as an interim officer, take the place of president. And that's what, 
of course, has happened. So President Moore has been taking over the role of president for the last number of 
meetings. The acting president does not, however, have the authority to designate a vice president, for example, 
so that leaves the commission for some period of time without both of the two elected officers that normally sit 
in those seats. The commission rules do not specify whether the interim president must preside for the balance 
of the previous president's term, or only until the next election is held. However, the language in Article 3, 
Section 2 of the Planning Commission's rules could be interpreted as applying only in temporary absences. In 
other words, not to be intended for a long-term replacement of an absent president. It's the job of the 
commission to interpret its rules. So when there is any kind of vague language, the commission is to step in and 
decide what the language means. Per the Commission Rules, Robert's Rules apply, except where the 
commission rules specify a different procedure. So although there is some language in Robert's Rules about 
what happens when there is a succession, those rules only apply when there is not a contrary or superseding 
provision in the specific Planning Commission rules. So because the Planning Commission's rules could be 
interpreted in one of two ways, the commission has a couple of options here. The commission could hold an 
election for the president. And then, depending on the outcome for a vice president, if necessary, or could hold 
an election only for the vice president seat, which is currently open with the interim president remaining in 
office until the end of the current term. So it's really up to the commission to interpret its rules and determine 
which of those two paths is appropriate. 
Commissioner Braun: 
Okay. Thank you for that. So what I'm hearing is this is a little vague in our rules and at the commission's 
discretion. Is that a good summary at the end of the day?  
Kirsten Jensen, City Attorney: 
Yes, it is.  
Commissioner Braun: 
Okay I mean, I can say that for me, I was not anticipating that there would be the succession. I, you know, I, I say 
this with the utmost respect to Chair Moore. But for me, as a commissioner, when we had a full hearing and 
vote on the presidency of this commission, I felt I was electing Commissioner Diamond to that position and did 
not imagine that you know, for a fairly long period of time, if something should happen with Commissioner 
Diamond departing, not that I was really thinking about it at the time, but that the role would automatically be 
filled. And it sounds like it's no wonder I was a little uncertain, because it sounds like our rules are a little unclear, 
I would just like to have the discussion about this, whether some of it's today and some of it is at the next hearing. 
But I also, because of the sort of time sensitivity to this in a way, I am also interested in calling a making a motion 
that we could vote on this at our next hearing and continue the discussion ahead of that vote, potentially. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 14 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Commissioner, Secretary Ionin, I think we are moving into a discussion. This item needs to be calendared. The 
public has a full right to see the commission deliberate on this matter. Particularly, I have the impression that 
the real wording of the rules and regulations are not totally familiar, including the interpretation. We're getting 
one interpretation, ultimately, it is the commission themselves who has to carefully scrutinize their own rules. 
The City Attorney's advisory to us, and I greatly appreciate the depth of their understanding. However, there's 
institutional memory from the public as well as from myself about the interpretation of the rules. And I would 
see it as an opportunity for all of us to turn a chapter together. Ultimately, we need to work as a team like it or 
not. The Election of Officers that is occurring once a year occurs on the 15th of January, and that is the term in 
which the elected officials, officers are on the commission, and that includes the vice president, whom you 
voted for also. So I'm not trying to make a case for myself here, but I believe that we owe it to ourselves to be 
more diligent about our rules and obligations, including the in-depth interpretation what we are voting on. I at 
this moment do differ in certain points of the City Attorney's interpretation, and I would like us to give ourselves 
the time to do this together. We have basically approximately 9 or 10 meetings left in this year, and you will, 
starting with the election process all over again in January. So I basically ask for you to follow the rules that we're 
not having a discussion or a motion or anything, but that we would be agreeing to have a meeting on the 
subject matter next week. And then we can move very quickly as soon as we have a common basis of what we 
are reading and what we are understanding. That would be my direction. I talked with the director about it 
yesterday. He seemed to be in concurrence, and I think it's one step at a time. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commission Chair Moore, I'll only state that under Commission Comments and questions on the agenda, there's 
a standing item that future meetings and agendas, that this is the opportunity the commission may discuss and 
take action to set the date of a special meeting and or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda 
of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission. So it's an appropriate discussion 
and or action to be had. I'm just just reminding you of what's already sort of a standing line item on your agenda. 
I will also note this, this topic has come up during the break, and there's been a lot of back and forth. So we went 
back and took a look at recent history as to what occurred just in the recent past. And -- 
Vice President Moore: 
Secretary Ionin, I am not here to discuss the pros and cons with you of what you have done in the break. I'm 
simply, simply trying to set a direction for the commission to have a discussion of changes in rule or 
interpretations of rule be done in an appropriate meeting, and an appropriate setting where each of us, 
including our brand-new commissioners who most likely have never seen these rules that particular it's hard to 
find them, finds a way to look at them together and talk about it. That is all I'm asking for. We need to act as a 
team and that is what we will do. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I was just going to remind the commissioner of past precedents that happened a couple of years ago.  
Vice President Moore: 
I appreciate the detail on that next week when we talk about it, I would greatly appreciate all the detail you 
have.  
Commissioner Braun: 
I understand. I would still like to have the conversation next week and also to have the election. If others 
disagree with me, this motion might fail if others don't. I mean, I haven't even gotten a second. I haven't actually 
made the motion yet, but, you know, I would move to have the election for president next week and we can 
continue the discussion then. If people feel I'm way off, you know, out of line here, then they can decide not to 
have the election if they want to get more information next week instead. Or if, next week they decide that this 
isn't a reasonable application of rules, then the election could simply confirm the current status quo. So either 
way, I would like to make a motion to hold the election for president next week.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 14 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Is there a second?  
Commissioner McGarry: 
Secretary Ionin, I would second that motion. 
Kirsten Jensen, City Attorney: 
If I could recommend that the motion be amended slightly so that it's a motion to elect officers so that if there 
is any change. If there is not any change in the president, you will then also be able to elect a vice president. 
Because as it stands, you would only be filling the presidential office.  
Commissioner Braun: 
Yes, that's acceptable to me.  
Commissioner McGarry: 
Yes, I'd second that. very good. Does the public get to 
Commissioner Braun: 
Yes, that's acceptable to me.  
Commissioner McGarry: 
Yes, I'd second that.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Very Good.  
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. I just want to, I'd like to say that, so, am I clear that the elections are in January? 
This coming year?  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The normal course of elections is held, I believe, on the first hearing after January 15th.  
Commissioner Williams: 
And that's. And that's when our previous President’s commission term was up.  
Vice President Moore: 
Correct?  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Correct. 
Commissioner Williams: 
Okay. so, I mean, I just want to say that it's only a couple of months. It's, three months, and then we're going to 
have to go through this process again. So I think that it's I'm, I think Commissioner Moore has a tremendous 
experience and, and she is very well respected. I think she'd make a fine I think she's doing fine where she's at. 
I think, that we should wait if we want to elect someone new. I think she'd be fine in the interim. And if we want 
to elect someone, we can wait until January, which is only a few months away. That's what I got to say.  
Commissioner McGarry: 
In the interests of continuity, I believe we have to have a full contingent and that means a vice president and a 
president. So for that reason, I second the motion to have an election for a vice president and a president. Thank 
you.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 14 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I actually would like, have more conversation this next week. And I'm glad that it will be, as part of the, you 
know, you made a motion, Commissioner Braun and I respect that in terms of having the election for officers, 
but I still would like to have this interpretation, the memo or what the city attorney has mentioned is something 
that I have not read yet in terms of the rules. So that's something that I would like to have as well and then have 
this really conversation. And for also for me to interpret this rule and also be able to deliberate this as a 
conversation for next week. You know, in and so I will withhold in terms of like whether we should have full 
election or the succession until I get that memo from the city attorney.  
Kirsten Jensen, City Attorney: 
To be clear, there is no memo. I was referring to the Planning Commission's rules, which are available on the 
website, and Robert's Rules, which are also available on the website.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. So well, probably I will have to set a meeting with you then just to be more clear on that interpretation, 
but I'd rather have a full conversation on this and also have the conversation about the succession in the past 
and what has happened before, because I feel like there has been a succession in the past before, but maybe I 
am not, you know, I'm not well versed in the history of the officers, but that can be, you know, something can 
be discussed with Secretary Ionin on the history of the succession, so that's my take.  
Commissioner So: 
I really appreciate everyone sitting here and full room of audience. And I really appreciate Commissioner 
McGarry mentioned that we have now full parties being appointed on this commission. The role of our 
commission is to help the city run efficiently and as quick as we can. My interest is to help projects move forward, 
that will move forward for our city. This project that is sitting in front of us, staring at us, we need to work fast 
together. By that, meaning, I really appreciate commissioner Derek Braun mentioned that we take care of our 
commission business as carefully and respectfully as we can, but we should spend most of our time looking at 
the projects. I truly believe that's what made us all to serve here for the city. It's not about ourselves. It's actually 
what is the best for the city. So that's kind of what I wanted to share. I really appreciate everyone's input.  
Vice President Moore: 
Thank you so much. Are there additional comments? If not, we can turn to public comment, please. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Indeed, as this is turned into an action item, we should open up public comment on this matter. Members of 
the public, this is your opportunity to address the commission on this matter.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Just for the record, I believe that the motion is actually to schedule the Election of Officers next week and that it 
doesn’t preclude you from not holding, having a conversation before you have that.  Just a clarification. 
Commissioner Braun: 
I just wanted to make that clarification as well. I apologize if I wasn’t clear about that but the motion is for an 
election next week, not today. 
 
SPEAKER:     
Georgia Schuttish – Discuss it next week so the public can comment 
                          
Francisco DaCosta – Discuss in the right manner 
                          
Sue Hestor – Have it on the agenda next week 
ACTION: 
Add the Election of Officers to September 19, 2024 agenda 
AYES: 
Campbell, McGarry, So, Braun, Imperial 
NAYS: 
Williams, Moore 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 11 of 14 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I’d like to restate my position that I believe until the commission has a full understanding and is thoroughly 
studied, the rules and regulations, that a vote or a motion to have an election is inappropriate. And I need to 
put that in there because if there’s leadership in the commission, in any commission, it is my responsibility to 
point out to commissioners who have not been around long enough to understand their responsibilities not 
under peer pressure but for the mere rules of which we are by the charter appointed to the responsibilities we 
have. Thank you. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, if there’s no further comments by the commissioners, if you would indulge me for just one 
moment, I recently learned about a state bill that has been passed and is on the governor's desk to sign and it's, 
it would affect all of you directly. It's quite interesting. So the bill would actually allow for commissions, 
commissioners to attend hearings remotely. And so in fact, the way it would apply for this commission is up to 
seven hearings a year. So it's fairly significant. I think it's to take into account work related travel, illness and 
whatnot, so that we can still continue the city's business, with a quorum, and so that we don't have to worry 
about that. So it's a significant change to the state regulation associated with our hearings and processes. And 
again, if the mayor-- excuse me, the governor decides to sign it within 30 days, it will become effective as of the 
1st of January, 2025.  
Vice President Moore: 
Secretary Ionin, has this been run by the mayor? Because the return to actual hearings was very much strongly 
based on the good principle that the mayor supports an active civic center environment in which city's business 
is visible to all. And we are to be here in this room, including the public who want to speak to us.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I can't say if the mayor was consulted or has been advised, but I'm sure she'll find out soon enough.  
Vice President Moore: 
And I really would appreciate it, because I do think that her the advice was sound and has indeed created the 
activity around city hall and the civic center that we all support.