9. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Braun: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 11 
 
10. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you. I just want to wish everyone a happy holidays. Take this time, we’re gonna, this is our last meeting 
before the holiday break so happy holidays to everyone and thank you for everything you do.  
President So: 
Happy Holidays. I would like to make an announcement today. This is to follow up back in the October 17, 2024 
meeting, we heard and received community letters regarding to a DR item on our agenda at the location of 
2588 Mission Street. After the community had voiced their concerns about that project and with a very 
thorough deliberations, myself and also my fellow Commissioner Williams met with the community and have 
a lot more conversations with our city staff and city attorney. I would like to use my discretion to form a, to host 
a offsite meeting of a subcommittee to listen to our community. And I would like to take this opportunity to 
appoint two members of our Commission, Commissioner Williams and Commissioner Campbell. And we would 
like to have this community hearing to take place as early as in January. The exact time and place will be 
provided in the future. Oh yeah, I’m also appointing myself. Thank you, Jonas.   
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you, Chair So. I just wanted to acknowledge and thank you and everyone who is going to participate, my 
two commissioners. This is a very important issue for the Mission community and I just, I really appreciate your 
thoughtfulness and your consideration because you know, considering I am from that community. So, I really 
just want to say thank you. 
President So: 
  Thank you.