7. LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Williams: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. As 
guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay our 
respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and by 
affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
8. CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for March 21, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
9. COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President Diamond: 
So, I'd like to start out by directing a question to Director Hillis. As we all know, we all received a letter from the 
Mayor yesterday relating to the rezoning. And I would like to understand further how the Planning Department, 
reacts to the letter and sort of the pathway, as you see it going forward. I know we all just received a memo from 
you on this, but I haven't had a chance to read it because it just came. So, maybe you could talk us through the 
memo.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. So, yeah, you should have in your email from Lisa Chen, a memo from us, basically trying to outline the 
steps of how we get from where we are today to a revised recommendation to you all on the rezoning. And as 
you know, we're under a timeline by HCD to get there by the end of next year. So, we have time, but we don't 
have a lot of time given the legislative process. And, you know, the amount of area we're looking at and the 
complications with it, so, that memo kind of lays out some of the topics and steps. And first, I just wanted to 
appreciate our team, Lisa Chen who's been leading this, Rachael Tanner who was on the Commission, Josh 
Switzky, and there are others, for their professionalism and thoughtfulness throughout this whole process. 
Because, as you know, it's not an easy task and the Mayor laid that out. You know, she's heard you. You've heard 
from folks who both say, this is going too far or this isn't going far enough, but you should know, we will continue 

San Francisco Planning Commission