6. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Campbell: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
7. 
CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for January 9, 2025 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION:  
Adopted 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
Williams 
8. 
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I just would like to say thanks to Ms. Watty and also Ms. Tanner in clarifying about the miscommunication or 
misunderstanding when it comes to the Railyard working group and I really appreciate, you know, reaching out 
and at the same time you know, looking out for the other community members as well to be as part of the 
working group as it's as it's going to start. So I want to thank you for that. 
9. 
4100 03RD STREET 
SPEAKERS: 
+ Michael Regan, Friends of the Children – Response to comments and questions 
+ Larry Badner – Response to comments and questions 
- Bavette Brackett – Inconsistent information, building was not abandoned 
- Tiffany Carter – Reject the application, make it a special use district 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 23, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 8 
 
+ Trisha Bender, Friends of the Children – Help the community 
- David Flynn – Vague information 
- Speaker – Historic building, research it more 
= Elizabeth Watty – Response to comments and questions