6. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner McGarry: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
7. 
CONSIDERATION OF ADOPTION: 
• Draft Minutes for December 5, 2024  
• Draft Minutes for December 12, 2024 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
None  
8. 
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President So: 
Welcome everyone, Happy New Year. And I’m really happy to be able to continue to serve our City and County 
of San Francisco alongside with you all. I’d like to give some update on what we had announced last Commission 
hearing, where in response to the project at 2588 Mission Street. Last time we had our meeting, we had talked 
about having a subcommittee hearing out in the Mission with the communities. As since December 24th of last 
year, the day before Christmas, we have received emails from the community that January 14th is not a really 
good day for them to organize and get together. So after a lot of conversation with the community, in 
collaboration with Commissioner Williams and senior staff in the Planning Department, and our secretary, with 
the community, we all collaboratively decided that we will have the community join our Commission hearing 
in City Hall at a later date on February 6th, with a particular time of 5pm. And with that, we no longer needed 
the subcommittee and everyone will be heard, and we will provide all the translation and an overflow room 
where it is needed to accommodate everyone. And it is agreed upon with the community at 5pm, it’s a good 
time for them to be able to have everyone show up and not to disrupt their daily lives. So, that kind of conclude 
my update. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioner So, if you would be so kind then to officially disband the subcommittee so there aren’t quorum 
issues. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 9, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 8 
 
President So: 
Yes, I am officially disbanding the subcommittee as of today, yes. Is there anything else I need to state? Okay.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Happy New Year to everybody. A new you, a new day, a new year. Welcome to Mayor Lurie. We look forward to 
constructively working with you and we hope to have many forward leading conversations. This is a good 
Commission, and we hope we can contribute to making the city whole again. On another hand, I want to extend 
my thoughts and prayers to our city in Southern California, which is like a war that I think scares all of us. And 
while we are not in the same exact climate zone, this can happen at any time and anywhere.  And as I followed 
and as I see these incredible pictures of the fire marches down street by street, block by block, I am paralyzed in 
fear and my heart goes out to the citizens of Southern California and to Los Angeles in particular.  
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you. Just wanted to say thank you to Planning staff and to President So for working with the community 
for that important hearing and giving them a place to voice their, to give them a voice. And so, I just want to 
say thank you. It’s very important that we listen to our communities around the city and so I really appreciate 
that. Thank you. 
President So: 
Thank you.