5. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Commissioner Braun: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
6. 
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
President So: 
So, I would like to address one of the letter that we had received a couple of days ago from Supervisor Walton's  
office in regard to the project at 4100 3rd Street. It was a CU hearing and I think that, there are some of my fellow 
Commissioners have some comments and some of them had already reached out to Supervisor’s office. Before 
opening up the floor for our fellow Commissioners’ comments I would like to see if Director Watty would like to 
give us some explanations or respond to the letter from Supervisor Walton.  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure I'm happy to, and just to note Director Hillis will be here in a moment but he's just in a meeting running a 
few minutes late but happy to share a few clarifying points. There's been a lot of I think correspondence of the 
Commission's been looped in since last week's hearing on 4100 03rd Street and I wanted to make a couple of 
things super clear. First, staff of the Planning Department did not send any letters from local electives or 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 16 
 
community leaders to the Commission on that project and it's our understanding that the sponsor also did not 
send any such letters to the Commissioners. Now I can't speak to everything that you guys receive but certainly 
those that have kind of come transmitted through us and we've asked the sponsor and that's my understanding.  
We do have the letters that have been referenced in the project file but staff very explicitly did not forward them 
because they were not about this project. So we have them in our file, they were submitted to the Department 
staff, but there was actually an email exchange between the Project Planner, Gaby, and the project sponsor 
saying “Hey thanks for these. They don't reference the project address. We'll keep them in the file. Do you have 
anything for this project address?” So there was a very sort of intentional understanding about what those 
letters were about.   
Secondly, the Commissioners did receive a two and a half three-page brief from the executive director of the 
Friends of the Children the night before the hearing that made mention of receiving a grant and that they 
received support for that grant from local electives and community leaders. I've reread that letter. I have a copy 
here if anyone wants to take a peek at it, but it's crystal clear in that letter that there's no graying of support. It's 
very clear that support was about the grant and there was no inference to the CU before you. It's worth noting 
that it's also not unusual for the Department to receive letters particularly for social service type projects or 
philanthropic or institutional uses.  Receiving letters that are effectively you know, like character witnesses of 
the organization that just sort of speak to the good the organization does for the community, it's really typical 
for us to get that. We often even see it here in the chambers where people aren't so much talking about the CU 
findings or even the question that you guys have to make but more just about the good of the organization.  
So for us it certainly didn't raise any red flags to receive those types of letters. You know, it's all sort of part of 
the background of understanding what this organization is and why they're requesting, you know, to be in this 
community. And so, but we also understand as I just mentioned, the distinction between that versus a support 
letter for this project.  
Nonetheless, I can also understand that if someone did not have a chance to read the letter that was forwarded 
to you guys at about 8 PM the night before which is not a reasonable expectation to have the Commission have 
to read something that comes in so late, that if you hadn't read that letter before walking into the Commission 
Chambers and you were just sort of generally listening audibly to the to the conversation from the sponsor 
during their presentation, you might have drawn an inference or assumed that support for the grant equated 
to support for the CU. And I absolutely can empathize and understand how that that happened. I did want to 
make sure I rewatched the video to make sure there wasn't any falsehoods presented and that the words were 
exactly what they should have been about support was for the grant and I can confirm that. I truly listened to it 
back about 20 times and wrote down every word and it was all about the letters we received were for the grant. 
And so I can confirm that from watching the video.  
All of this though is to say I think we can always take a couple of lessons learned from every experience that has 
blown up. By no means do we, you know, we very much take to heart the, clearly the Supervisor’s Office was 
very upset by those inferences that they felt were made and I think we can do better to try to put some protocols 
in place so that kind of thing doesn't happen in the future.  So I've let staff know to really make sure we go above 
and beyond particularly when elected officials or you know, senior members of the community provide 
correspondence that we take that extra moment to really delineate and almost go above and beyond to call 
out exactly what we got and exactly what the content of the letters were.  We've gotten a way of trying to sort 
of reiterate what people's letters of support are because in the past it's always been a little tricky to say, you 
know, we got 100 letters of support, let us describe what each and every one of them said to you all. But I think 
especially when it comes to that subset of the population that is meaningful when they show their support for 
projects to you all that we're going to take a little extra effort to really delineate that moving forward to you all 
and I think we can do, you know, better job to make sure that you're not getting critical information from 
sponsors the night before a hearing.  
I understand that that's a real pressure on you guys and difficult so we're going to work to really make sure that 
we get those incorporated into the packet so you've got your full week to read everything and have time to ask 
those questions. So I just wanted to get that out on the record, you know, apologize in advance to the 
Supervisors Office if there was anything that we could have done differently and that we'll, we'll handle things 
a bit differently in the future. But all of this is to say I don't think there was any sort of untruthfulness actually 
presented or any sort of malfeasance or intent of being deceptive in any of the communication. And so I just 
wanted to make sure we, we kind of got that out there for you, all of you.  Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 16 
 
President So:  
Thank you. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, President So, for first addressing it, for bringing it up, and Ms. Watty for all the explanation and 
clarification. And yes, I do agree with you as well Ms. Watty that in terms of the protocols we do need to, you 
know, we're talking about a district that is always kind of like left behind, the Bayview, and needs more 
resources and more support. So you know, I think that this is definitely a learning lesson and I also hold myself 
accountable in that perhaps I, you know, as a Commissioner, should have also questioned more deeply in terms 
of the intent of the letter as well. So definitely this is a big learning lesson for me personally and yeah and this is 
something that I think moving forward in the Bayview Hunters Point area there needs to be more critical eye 
you know critical eye point of view in terms of looking into the support for particular project or plans. 
I also want to bring up because SOMA Pilipinas Cultural Heritage District reached out to me actually this week 
that again in terms I believe during the SF Railyard hearing, Commissioner Williams asked a question to the, to 
staff whether SOMA Pilipinas is part of the Railyard working group and apparently SOMA Pilipinas contacted 
me and saw, you know, watching the recorded hearing and informed me that SOMA Pilipinas is not part of the 
SF Railyard working group. And so that was something also whether it needs more clarification and also you 
know clarification and you know for me personally if the staff does not know or does not know the whole you 
know not I'm not assuming that all staff will be knowledgeable in all of the things that especially for that project 
because a lot of things going on I do encourage us to be transparent that you know something that they have 
not thought of or something in progress and so you know, it does you know, for a community to kind of reach 
out and said that they are also being a represent-- or they feel like they're being misrepresented you know, I 
kind of want to recognize that and also, you know, to follow up in terms of the progress of the SF Railyard 
working group.  So I just want to, you know, comment on that and be and perhaps I will also follow up personally 
for the working group on that. So thank you. 
Commissioner Williams: 
This was, I was going to have this question for Planning Director Hillis but Ms. Watty, since you're, since you're 
here and we're talking about the letter from Supervisor Walton, I get concerned just for the sensitivity of the 
use of that building at 41 03rd Street mentoring children from the Bayview. When the supervisor writes a letter 
and questions some of the comments made by the project sponsor that's concerning to me. He's also African 
American. There's predominantly African American children in the Bayview Hunters Point and so that's a 
concerning that's a concerning thing to me and I'm just wondering if it's worth a second look and what options 
do we have as a Commission moving forward on this on this issue?  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
I might defer that to Jonas if he can kind of walk through what that protocol would be. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Sure. I'll say first of all that this is not on our agenda so we're beginning to get into a bit of a discussion. But just 
to clarify the options you have associated with I'll just speak in general maybe not to maybe the particular 
project but if the Planning Commission receives any evidence of misleading information that has been 
submitted as part of the application, you can under Section 303 under Conditional Uses, Conditional Use 
Abatement request that the matter be brought back before you by a majority vote of the Commission. So, it 
would require four votes of this Commission to bring back something that you feel there is enough evidence to 
suggest that there was misleading information presented as part of your review and then you would rehear the 
matter. It could be brought up as a revocation hearing to revoke your previous approval or your previous 
disapproval for that matter and take action however you see fit. Okay. Just a gentle reminder that the project is 
not on your agenda today for discussion. You can speak in general terms about things but -- 
 
Commissioner Williams: 
So to me I think this requires some further discussion. I don't know how others feel about this but I think there's 
some, some questions and I don't want to get too far into it about you know, how we can make sure that this 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 16 
 
doesn't happen again. And I know that some of that has to do with Planning and who's working with the 
Bayview Hunters Point neighborhood from Planning. I think there's some, you know, there's not enough 
communication and support for the Bayview. I'm concerned about all of that stuff.  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Absolutely. And I'll just say just since this is a great platform, our Bayview CAC,  Community Advisory Committee, 
that we staff, actually our manager who oversees the Bayview neighborhood in the current Planning division 
staffs the Bayview CAC, just informed us that they've lost quorum because somebody quit the Bayview CAC. 
Obviously, the Bayview CAC is a really important forum to be able to vet development projects and the idea is 
to you know have all of the different public projects that are happening get vetted, their development projects 
that are vetted it's a really important forum and they've just lost quorum. So if anyone also knows of anyone 
within the community who wants to sit on that Bayview CAC, we would love to help put them in touch with the 
folks who do the appointments process. But I think that a) is a really critical component of getting 
representation and voices from the collective community heard because typically projects go to the Bayview 
CAC before they come to the Planning Commission you know projects of size. So I think that's one thing that I 
think would be really, really helpful. We've been teetering on not having a quorum for a long time and we just 
officially hit not having a quorum.  
And then secondly, yes, I think internally as staff, we do need to and I've because it's not my division I'm not 
quite as in the weeds with our Community Equity divisions staffing right now for the Bayview but I do think we 
lost our last full time person who was working on the bay-- specifically on the Bayview and I don't know what 
the current coverage is right now on that team. But I've also again learning lessons here I think from all of this 
of the last week I've been working with our the manager who reports directly to me responsible in this area to 
really make sure they're having weekly communications with the Supervisors’ Office as it relates to 
development projects at least so that there is a lot of sort of advanced notice about what's coming up, what's 
going on, what projects are coming in, what's up on the agenda and the next week or two weeks so that at least 
those you know, nothing's getting lost in the shuffle as it relates to that. But I hear your point about sort of the 
larger Community Equity division making sure that we've got folks sort of in the community, part of the 
community from our Department, but I couldn't miss the opportunity for the plug for the Bayview CAC because 
we need to get some people on that so we can make quorum. 
Commissioner Williams: 
I got you. You know I'd like to you know, put something forward to continue this conversation so I'm not sure if 
that's to agendize this matter for you know next week or another week. I think it rises to that level.  
President So: 
Certainly. Commissioner Williams, I would like to maybe, perhaps hear all, seems like we all want to say 
something about this and then we can collectively make a decision to put something on the agenda in the 
upcoming weeks. 
Commissioner Braun: 
Thank you.  I just want to say first of all, first of all, thank you to the Supervisor’s Office and the Supervisor for 
bringing this concern to our attention and Ms. Watty, I really appreciate your assessment and review of what 
exactly happened and I agree with that assessment of the situation. You know, I looked through all my 
correspondence and everything. I didn't see these letters and when the project sponsor submitted their letter 
to me and the other Commissioners you know, I read it I did not read it as them claiming that there was support 
from the Supervisor’s Office for the project itself but rather for a prior grant application. However I can definitely 
see how the fact that the that letter of support for the grant application was raised repeatedly could be a 
confusing issue for anyone who hasn't read the exact wording of what they have sent in the past or to listen to 
the exact wording of every sentence that they said during the hearing. So you know, I, I agree with the broader 
sense that it's maybe not appropriate for the sponsor to have so overly emphasized that past support for the 
grant application. The sponsor did submit a follow up letter in response to the supervisor or in which they, they 
you know, took responsibility, explained themselves as trying to just indicate general support, but nevertheless 
it's, it's something that you know, for my part at that hearing I could see how it could be confusing and so I'm 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 16 
 
going to hold myself accountable if I see that situation unfolding and try to do a better job of asking questions 
for clarification about what exactly is being discussed during the hearing. I do like the sort of internal policy 
change here that's been stated as far as ensuring staff are clear about letters that are received or not received, 
about whether the letters are directly about the project, and to continue not circulating letters that are not 
addressed directly to the Commission or directly about the project. So I really appreciate the responsiveness 
here and it's something I'm just going to continue to keep an eye on myself.  
Commissioner McGarry: 
I agree with all our all my fellow Commissioners but I would like to say and alleviates Supervisor Walton's office 
that my vote last week, I did differentiate the difference between a grant and application for a grant and the 
project. We were here for the project and yes you can twist it but we were still here for the project that was 
brought forth and basically it is there to look after at-risk youth within the Bayview. So that is what I voted on. 
If it was twisted or it seems to be twisted in either ways, that was my vote last week but it was it was definitely 
for the project and to get that place open as quickly as possible so they could serve the community. But if there 
is, as Commissioner Williams emphasizes there something else I want to know something I want to know what 
the something else is.  I worked out of the Bayview for 28 years just down the road from this and everyone's got 
my phone number and if there is something untoward or a little odd, I'd like to know about it.  But otherwise 
we're here for the project and that's what I voted on last week. So thank you.  
Commissioner Moore: 
I think was one of the most difficult weeks I ever had thinking that something [inaudible] slipped our attention 
and sometimes it's so subtle that we don't even notice that it really means something slightly different. And I 
did appreciate Ms. Watty really in the most sensitive way and thoroughly take apart what we actually went 
through thinking that we had everything and it was really enforcing it gave us like buoyance to support the 
project. Guess what? So there's one essential thing we did not ask the right question that there's a difference 
between a grant and a full support for a project and that is where I personally felt that my racial and social equity 
lens was not quite as focused or as quite up. I've realized that there was perhaps something not quite accurate 
and again I embraced the letter of support which I never got I never got even a notification that there was 
something else and said okay, there is something we can hang our hat on and believe it's really the thing we 
need to support and unfortunately it came out a little differently.  
I want to acknowledge and recognize Ms. Watty for the sensitivity by which she for me has instilled great trust 
in the thoroughness of the Department and I say that very honestly because again to repeat, you taking it apart 
for every aspect of what you do and what we trust you do, there's no doubt in my mind that the Department 
has little or nothing to do with this but it's a kind of like a domino effect of things that over the course of 2 or 3 
years just basically went unobserved. I would support an ongoing discussion for us specific to the project but 
generally to how we improve and ourselves participate with more awareness, ask questions before we even 
meet and call the planner, “is there something missing here?” just to ensure ourselves that everything is 
soundproof and ready to go. I want to leave it with that supporting an ongoing discussion and thank everybody 
for just standing up for what happened last week.  
President So: 
Thank you very much, Vice President Moore. I really appreciate everyone actually give such a serious thought 
about this and it is very important that as a Planning Department we need to recognize and do culturally an 
equitable outreach that's not just to the community but also to our Supervisors’ Office. And in this regard, I had 
a conversation with Supervisor Walton. Is he supportive of this organization mission? Yes, no doubt. He is 
supportive of this organization's mission to help uplift youth in the Bayview and Hunters Point. But had he felt 
personally been mis-represented? Absolutely. So in this regard I am with my fellow Commissioner that we’d like 
to continue to have some candid dialog either to agenda item to, to talk about how our Department already 
have a really robust communication protocol established with our supervisors and the project sponsors but can 
there be room for improvement? Absolutely, right? So, let's reconvene and think about what will be the most 
effective way to continue to address and improve among ourselves so then we can foster a better 
communication and trust between project sponsors, the Supervisor’s Office and our Department staff.  
And also, I had to comment on what Commissioner Imperial mentioned regarding to the 4th Street railyards; 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 16 
 
misrepresentation is by no means really importantly we do not encourage. So I would like to say moving 
forward including our staff or even specifically project sponsors when you're in doubt, to ask a questions about 
who have you outreached,  have you talked to a specific group, if you actually wasn’t sure, please just state that 
you need more time to check and get back to us so then we can avoid the snowball effect from continuing it. 
And then, yeah, we would like to take that opportunity to advertise the Bayview CAC definitely need your help 
to represent. If you do live in that district and you have an interest to serve and represent your community, so 
make sure that your voice are being heard, please reach out to Liz Watty. And thank you and my fellow 
Commissioner Imperial, you would like to have a closing statement on this?  
Commissioner Imperial: 
No, I actually have clarification President So on in terms of bringing having, having this particular agenda is in 
the future calendar, just wondering, whether are we talking about the project in itself or in terms of general 
communication relation for any project start coming in to Bayview?  I just want that clarification.  
President So: 
Well, I have been following up with everybody's concern. It sound like it's more of about the communications 
moving forward of how we can hold ourselves more diligent and be able to discern over when all these 
materials come in front of us, maybe perhaps make a point of when should the staff actually eliminate 
unnecessary confusion information that come in front of us so that will give us a much more fair approach to 
the project.  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Absolutely. And maybe if I can make a suggestion on that if that's sort of the direction that folks are looking in, 
you know, we are always looking at ways for, you know, striking that fine balance between sort of streamlining 
our packets and the information that we provide to you. And so big part of that is public commentary while also 
not streamlining out the important things. And it is a delicate balance because we very much recognize if we 
send you guys a 60-page staff report it's really difficult to get through every nuance detail every week when 
that's multiplied by several projects and so it's a constant sort of balance that we're doing. I would certainly love 
if there is a you know, subset of you all that are really interested in you know, making sure that the information 
that we put in our staff reports is accessible to the different types of communities that's culturally competent 
like the way we write our staff reports to make sure people kind of get it because there is a lot of jargon, there 
is a lot of technical information and so it's a little more than just the communication with communities, but I do 
think it all leads back to how are we talking about development projects and making sure that people are 
understanding but then also we're relaying people's understandings about the projects to you all accurately. So 
if that is sort of interest and maybe sort of strikes the interest of what you guys are kind of getting at here, I 
would be more than happy to, you know, not have it be we don't need to do a subcommittee that you know, if 
there is a non-quorum quantity of you that are especially interested in this I'm happy to set up offline some 
separate time to have conversations with you on what you think could be improved as it relates to like our 
packets and our all of that stuff. 
President So: 
Commissioner Williams, you wanted to weigh in on this? 
Commissioner Williams: 
Yeah, I just want to bring up that I'd like to hear from the supervisor himself and have him have some input on 
how we move forward. So I'm not exactly sure how we do that but I think that's an important thing that we 
haven't really talked about. 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
I mean I think we can absolutely commit, I think what one of the takeaways from this is that we need to sit down 
face to face with the Supervisor’s Office and establish a very clear strategy for communication moving forward 
to make sure that there are no minced words, everyone's aware of projects. We understand their department 
or their, their offices take on a project, right? All of those things I think we feel like we've tried but I've absolutely 
heard that there may be some disconnects. And so I think that's probably a next step. I don't think that needs 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 16 
 
to take place in these chambers. I think that's probably a better conversation for our office to have with them 
to figure out how we can improve communications moving forward. So we absolutely can commit to doing 
that. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would also ask if we are expanding the discussion of fellow Commissioners as well as Ms. Watty. I would like 
the city attorney to advise us generally of procedural matters and very clear define parameters in which that 
conversation can be generic and if anybody has a need for it to be project specific to advise us of how we should 
do that.  This is a novelty. I have only been once involved in a vote which was actually rescinded within an hour 
or two but we have never really had discovery and potentially somebody felt well we need to relook at the 
project and I'm not saying that we should do that, but I would like generically to understand from city attorney 
of what uncharted waters we would get ourselves into. 
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney: 
Sure. Deputy City Attorney, Austin Yang. As the secretary mentioned, there are provisions in the Planning Code 
section 303 that provide for reconsideration or abatement of a conditional use criteria for that includes 
falsehoods or I don't have a section in front of me but misrepresentations. The Commission can only modify or 
rescind a previously approved Conditional Use through the same mechanism so you would have to agendize 
and notice the exact same type of action and provide an opportunity to reconsider the Conditional Use that you 
had previously approved. And you know as a reminder this would be about the use of the property as 
Commissioner McGarry mentioned. You know, sort of separate and aside from anything about a grant, you 
know, this would be about legitimately the proposed use that was in front of the Commission last week. If you 
wanted to consider more generally, you wouldn't be bound necessarily by the Conditional Use limitations and 
you could have a broader discussion sort of as you been having here but you know I think that as Ms.  Watty has 
articulated you know, I think there's been a lot of feedback for the Department to take back and to consider and 
maybe report back at a future meeting. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you.   
Commissioner Williams: 
I'd like to put forward a motion to rehear the CU.  
Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney: 
I would defer to Secretary but I believe that the time for future matters is in 1 or 2 agenda items. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Well we're still on item six for Commission Comments and Questions which includes future meetings but I 
would need to hear a second to, from another member of the Commission to even call a vote. 
Commissioner Moore 
I personally would have to have our discussions first and ground myself a little bit more in all aspects that come 
into play here including speaking to the supervisor himself to give us a little bit more guidance about the 
background of this project. This project came completely new to us. It had support in another location. Why did 
you support it then and now it's not so there's a whole bunch of intricacies that I don't want to skip over in order 
to make a responsible decision to hear it or not. And again it's ultimately about land use, land use so layered 
and with the proper facts that constitutes a full background to the project. [Inaudible] 
Commissioner Moore: 
Commissioners, I'm going to caution this body one more time that we've reached a level of discussion on a 
specific topic that is not agendized. If you wish to agendize a general topic or even a specific topic to have a 
more in-depth conversation about this, I suggest we agendize it for the next hearing or future hearing after staff 
maybe meets with the officers to have a conversation, but we've reached a level of discussion on a topic that is 
not on your agenda today. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 16 
 
President So: 
So, may I suggest we will put this as an agenda to continue to discuss this topic next week? Would it be, oh 
Commissioner McGarry, would you like to say something? 
Commissioner McGarry: 
So, I need to be clear on this. Is there is there an objection to this body’s advancing this last week? The project 
as a whole. The project is not being I'm not hearing that's an objection to our decision last week. What I'm 
hearing is that there might be an informational or an interpretation of information how it's coming but nothing 
about the project itself. Has the project by Supervisor Walton's office as Supervisor Walton's office objected to 
to us putting this advancing this— 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners I'm going to again caution that this this item is not on your agenda today for discussion and if 
you would like to discuss this matter, I suggest you put it on the agenda next week or for future hearing. 
Commissioner McGarry: 
There's a motion I just want to make sure that the motion actually lines up with what we're actually – 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The motion I believe is to schedule the Conditional Use Authorization for the project to be reconsidered by the 
Planning Commission.  
Commissioner Moore: 
No. 
President So: 
No, 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
That was what the motion was made.  I did not hear a second. 
Commissioner Williams: 
I'll rescind that motion– 
President So: 
Okay. 
Commissioner Williams: 
If you're willing to make a motion to continue – 
President So: 
Yeah. I think now we're going to have a new motion is to put this particular topic to continue for our Commission 
discussion for next week. Not necessarily bring back the project yet. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Understood.  
President So: 
We need more time.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
[inaudible]So we'll put it on the calendar 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 11 of 16 
 
President So: 
Okay.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
We want an info item on it. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Right. There seems to be consensus from the – 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
an information?  
Commissioner Williams: 
Do we need to second it?  
President So: 
We don't need to second it. 
Commissioner Williams: 
Okay.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I mean I guess I'm trying to--  
President So: 
Director Hillis. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. thank you. Sorry. I don't know. I wasn't here for the discussion so you may want to have a motion to – 
President So: 
and see maybe there are – 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
[inaudible]  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Perhaps maybe we can just be crystal clear. It sounded like there was a motion to, you know, schedule a 
resumption for the project and we could not get a second. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Correct.  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
We then have conversation that we want to have a larger conversation about the Department's communication 
strategies, particularly in the Bayview and how those can be improved in the future and it sounded like there 
was interest of further that conversation around how we can improve communications, make sure things like 
this don't happen in the future etc. In the abstract, not specific to this project, is that correct? 
President So: 
I think maybe [inaudible] incorrect here that after that debriefing some of my Commissioner might, would like 
to keep that opportunity to, to be able to rescind the CU. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 12 of 16 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I thought I said we wanted to get more input, direct input from Supervisor Walton’s office if there's anything 
we missed. 
President So: 
Right. 
Commissioner Moore: 
To better understand why this was in the first place. Without any [inaudible] 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
So, you're saying if we missed any land use? 
Commissioner Moore: 
[inaudible] anything just is basically informative open up to discussion what did we miss hearing from you and 
that is kind of like all I want to do. That does not mean that that automatically means that I'm trying to tee it up 
for rescinding, whatever the word is, and I just believe we need to have that that openness. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And maybe if I could suggest one alternative path is and this won't happen tomorrow or next week but similar 
to the meetings we've had on the Mission in the Mission although there was a Mission Action Plan, in the 
Tenderloin there was a Tenderloin Action Plan, you know we can schedule a hearing on kind of Third Street In 
The Bayview. We can talk about the CHESS report that's happening to the cultural district. So, there could be a 
hearing just broadly about that Bayview, some of the projects that are happening within the broader 
neighborhood like the Shipyard and Candlestick and certainly this could be a topic we talk about. We'd want 
time to prep for that but similar to other neighborhoods where we've had a hearing about kind of issues 
perhaps things you want to see happen, we can do that as well. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Just want to chime in. Yes, I think there let's start with a broad topic where, and we've had we've done this 
before where there's a broad topic and we ended up also mentioning particular projects for that. So, I don't see 
it different, and we can also again invite the supervisor in that in that conversation too. But you know for me I’d 
like to see in terms of the broad pattern the broad one in what we're what's the Planning Department doing in 
terms of the Bayview Hunters Point neighborhood and also you know how are we actually improving those 
communication relation, the outreach, the community engagement that we're doing the Bayview, I mean 
there's a lot of things to cover in the Bayview Hunters Point, the Bayview CAC at the same time too. So, I'd like 
to start with a broad one and of course we can discuss this particular topic about 4100 Third Street and site that 
as an example. I'd like to see it in that way how we do the hearing but yeah. 
President So: 
Okay. 
7. 
ELECTION OF OFFICERS – In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the San Francisco Planning 
Commission, the President and Vice President of the Commission shall be elected at the first Regular Meeting 
of the Commission held on or after the 15th day of January of each year, or at a subsequent meeting, the date 
which shall be fixed by the Commission at the first Regular Meeting on or after the 15th day of January each 
year. 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
President - So; Vice President - Moore 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
None  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 13 of 16