6. 
LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
President So: 
The Planning Commission acknowledges that we are on the unceded ancestral homeland of the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula. As the indigenous stewards of this land 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 6, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 8 
 
and in accordance with their traditions, the Ramaytush Ohlone have never ceded, lost, nor forgotten their 
responsibilities as the caretakers of this place, as well as for all peoples who reside in their traditional territory. 
As guests, we recognize that we benefit from living and working on their traditional homeland. We wish to pay 
our respects by acknowledging the ancestors, elders, and relatives of the Ramaytush Ohlone community and 
by affirming their sovereign rights as first peoples. 
7. 
COMMISSION COMMENTS/QUESTIONS 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to ask that we close today in memory of Allan Jacobs. Many of you know who he is. For those of you 
who are not that familiar with his work, I want to briefly summarize some of his outstanding contributions to 
San Francisco's Planning.  Allan served as San Francisco Planning Director for eight years from 1967 to 1974 and 
as director he believed in the people centered approach to design of cities. During his tenure as San Francisco 
Planning Director he created the San Francisco Urban Design Plan, a much-used document that was on the 
table of many professionals for decades. He developed major elements of the city's comprehensive plan at that 
time and he developed the Urban Design Guidelines for Downtown Development which still today, until today, 
linger in many of the things we talk and aspire to. His work focused on revitalizing neighborhoods throughout 
San Francisco and to make them more livable. And as a planner he was concerned with creating places for 
communities. Physical manifestations of his work in San Francisco are many and I am only going to touch on a 
few of them. For example the exceptional double wall of Chinese elm trees on Folsom Street reaching from 
Bernal Heights almost to downtown. This is the longest double row of trees in San Francisco.  
Street and pedestrian improvements in the Duboce Triangle are known to all of us and so are the 24 mini parks 
with a memorable one at 24th and York Street. As few people know that actually under his tenure the South 
San Francisco Opera House was saved from demolition actually [inaudible], and creating the state park at 
Candlestick Park also fell in this time of tenure. Most known to us close to City Hall is obviously the design of 
Octavia Boulevard and Patricia Green and we all know that at that time he was not a City Planning Director 
anymore but he led the design of that particular project.  
And as professor of Urban Design at UC Berkeley, many of you may have studied under him. He served from 
1975 to 2001 and actually it was under his leadership that the Department established Urban Design 
concentration at UC Berkeley and he helped them found the school for the Master of Urban Design Program 
attracting students from around the world. In his career he was a tough visionary as his colleagues labeled him 
and he was one of the world's best-known planners and Urban Design Practitioners who attracted many, many 
important designers to the San Francisco Planning Department and had opened doors for worldwide 
participation in major projects abroad.  
Many are familiar or own some of his remarkable books. The most fun one is actually written in the early, mid-
seventies, Making City Planning Work which chronicles his tenure at San Francisco Planning as the San Francisco 
Planning Director. And for all of us who haven't read this book it's worth a read the many good laughs including 
the real struggles by which Planning really took off and became one of the more, most remarkable Planning 
Departments in the country. There are the books, The Boulevard book, The Great Streets book, The Good Cities 
book, all memorable and wonderful for people who are interested reading about Urban Design and Planning. 
In all of his accomplishments there is wisdom and a sense of humor in his urban musings and I'm going to give 
you two which always make me chuckle, “No great city has ever been known for its abundant supply of parking”, 
and it makes me laugh and there is something which makes me think and that is “Cities are to be the ultimate 
manifestation of a society's collective achievement”. Jake, rest in power. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you for those words, Commissioner Moore, because we've been reflecting on his work. And I think much 
of what we do today we take for granted because of what he pushed for when he was when he was Planning 
Director you know because of during the 60s and 70s many cities were focusing more on the automobile and 
how we could accommodate more auto oriented uses in, you know, at that time he had to push back on that 
to maintain enhance San Francisco as very much focused on people in pedestrians in our neighborhoods. Again 
things we do fairly easily today but were you know he had to push back against kind of the prevailing winds at 
the time.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 6, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 8 
 
Just a couple if you read Great Streets today there's a small couple of pages on Market Street and kind of why 
it's not a great street and some of the problems that are still resonates today and I think there are still issues we 
need to address on Market Street. So he was also willing to kind of call out some of the issues we have in San 
Francisco, Noe Street when you walk down, I mean is just a wonderful place to be one of my favorite favorite 
streetscapes in the city, you know that is directly attributable well to his work. I had the pleasure of meeting 
him, maybe it wasn’t pleasurable, well, because we were getting yelled at as City staff when I was a Project 
Manager for Octavia Boulevard and he wanted to ensure that kind of the vision he had put forward for Octavia 
was actually implemented by the City staff and bureaucracy and I was the Project Manager on the Economic 
Development side. But as you could see it is you know although traffic has to move through there it's a great 
place to be even as a pedestrian on the side streets. So, thank you for that discussion and we'll we'll adjourn 
today's meeting in his honor. 
President So: 
Absolutely. My condolences. I would like to also share with my fellow Commissioners and everyone what I had 
attended this past Saturday. I joined our Planning staff in the Historic Preservation Department to the Sunset to 
help them to continue their effort in the San Francisco Citywide Cultural Resource Survey and they were 
collecting historical surveys and oral stories of Chinese American in the Sunset and also all the other ethnicity 
that are also part of the history of our [inaudible].  
So that's there were 40 people I would say or more a lot of them are bilingual and majority of them are Chinese 
American descent and there were some Irish American represented and the team did a really good job and with 
collaboration with Wah Mei who was generously hosted the whole space for us. And so you can see that here 
the group divided into different subgroup sessions to really dive deep into hearing what they had to say and 
their memory of how life was growing up in the Sunset. And I like to take this opportunity to give some credit 
to our staff in our Historic Preservation -  Frances McMillen, Alex Westhoff, Maggie Smith, Elizabeth Gordon-
Jonckheer, Mary Woods, and then of course their director, Richard Sucre. And my gratitude to Lily Wong who is 
the Executive Director of Wah Mei generously host her entire space and her staff working overtime for us and 
providing all the equipment for us to enable the recording, and I cannot thank enough about the translator that 
we have, Tracy Wu and Leon Chao.  
Lastly, I was really delighted to see the Executive Director of the United Irish Cultural Center also present, it is 
Mr. Liam Reidy. So it was great. Thank you.