This website offers functionality that requires JavaScript. To easily turn ON JavaScript you can follow the instructions provided on the following websites:Enable JavaScriptandWikiHow
SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, June 18, 2015
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
COMMISSIONERS ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 12:10 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director,Rich Sucre, Chris Townes, Aaron Starr, Diego Sanchez, Tina Chang, Sara Vellve, and Jonas P. Ionin – Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1a.2013.0677X(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
2000-2070 BRYANT STREET- located along the west side of Bryant Street at 18thStreet, Lots 001, 002, and 021 in Assessor’s Block 4022 - Request for aLarge Project Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Section 329, for the demolition of the buildings on the project site, and the new construction of a six-story mixed-use building (measuring approximately 286,381 gross square feet; approximately 68-ft tall) with up to 274 dwelling units, approximately 5,140 square feet of ground floor retail, up to 160 off-street parking spaces, 248 Class 1 bicycle parking spaces, 26 Class 2 bicycle parking spaces, and private and common open spaces. Under the LPA, the project is seeking a modification to certain Planning Code requirements, including: 1) rear yard (Planning Code Section 134); 2) open space (Planning Code Section 135); 3) permitted obstructions over the street, alley, rear yard or useable open space (Planning Code Section 136); 4) ground floor ceiling height for non-residential uses (Planning Code Section 145.1); 5) off-street freight loading (Planning Code Section 152.1); and; 6) accessory use provisions for dwelling units (Planning Code Sections 329(d)(10) and 803.3(b)(1)(c)). The subject property is located within the UMU (Urban Mixed-Use) Zoning District, and 68-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Proposed for Continuance to July 2, 2015)
SPEAKERS:Spike Khan – Conitnue to November
John Elberling – Kill it now, save the PDR
Jonathan Yout – Continue to November
Marie Eliza – Continue longer than a few weeks.Special hearing
Gabriel Medina – Continue until Mission 2020 Plan is completed
Danny Campbell – Continue and opposed
Joshua Arce – Continue/deny
Diego Hernandez – Area standard wages – opposed
Andy Blue – Kill the project
Steve Vettel – Support continue to 7/2
Scott Kiper – In favor of the continuance
Sharon Concepcion – Continue
David Calosare – Continue
Diego Romero – Continue to 7/2
ACTION:After a Motion to Continue to July 2nd failed to receive a second; a Motion to Continue to August 6th was adopted by a vote +3 -2 (Richards, Wu against; Fong, Johnson absent); that Motion was rescinded; and the matter was Continued to September 10, 2015
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
1b.2013.0677CUA(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
2000-2070 BRYANT STREET- located along the west side of Bryant Street at 18thStreet, Lots 001, 002, and 021 in Assessor’s Block 4022 - Request for aConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317, for the demolition of three existing dwelling units. The subject property is located within the UMU (Urban Mixed-Use) Zoning District, and 68-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Proposed for Continuance to July 2, 2015)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:After a Motion to Continue to July 2nd failed to receive a second; a Motion to Continue to August 6th was adopted by a vote +3 -2 (Richards, Wu against; Fong, Johnson absent); that Motion was rescinded; and the matter was Continued to September 10, 2015
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
2.2014-000507CUA(C. TOWNES: (415) 575-9195)
350 RHODE ISLAND STREET–block bounded by 16thStreet, 17thStreet, Kansas Street and Rhode Island Street, Block 3957, Lots 002, 003, 004 - Request forConditional Use Authorization,pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303, 843.45, 843.76, and 890.13, to allow an auto rental use over 4,000 square feet. Currently, the existing auto rental use (Audi on Demand) occupies 3,994 sf. The Project proposes to add an additional 9,979 sf of auto rental use for a total of 13,973 sf within a subterranean garage and second floor. The project does not propose any exterior alterations. The subject property is located within the UMU (Urban Mixed Use) Zoning District and 48-X/68-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
MOTION:19390
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
3.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for June 4, 2015
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
4.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Richards:
I don't know if folks have seen the news that our beloved brand La Boulange, which was a bought by Starbucks, is now going out of business. I think it is a shame. I think that here we had a 18,000 chain location by our 20 location chain and when they bought it, I actually thought how the heck they are they going to run 20 unit location in a 18,000 location company? I guess my worst fears were realized. They also in the article in the business report this morning compared Hershey buying Scharffen Berger. And the other one I want to add is Joseph Schmidt. I know my land use committee confirmation hearing at the Board, I actually mentioned the Joseph Schmidt acquisition by Hershey as a lack of good faith type purchase. The only reason why Hershey bought it is to actually put it out of business and I believe the only reason why Starbucks bought La Boulange is to put it out of business as well and that very much upsets me. Thank you.
Commissioner Antonini:
A good article in today’s Chronicle by Chuck Nevius, I am of the opinion we often get what we deserve. We have violence, crime, filth and graffiti in San Francisco that permeates the City, where people write about how filthy we are compared to other cities, it’s because we bring it onto ourselves and this is very a good article, although it’s only one man's opinion, he basically feels that in this case he talks about a tagger that’s costing the City over $50,000 per year in city cost, which is well above the level that should be considered a felony. He remarks that it’s possible that judges can diminish the penalty from felonies to misdemeanors and then dismiss the offender – the accused. And if that is the case, it makes no sense to me at all. I'm not saying that it’s necessarily accurate, but we need to have our laws enforced and we need to have everyone involved in the process to follow these laws. So, I think that, when you see the garbage around our city much of which is graffiti, that costs everybody a lot of money, money that could be used for housing, money that could be used for all the things that everybody comes up here and tells us we need. It is been miss spent on cleaning up the vandalism of others. A good article, if you haven’t read it already, today's Chronicle, check Chuck Nevius.
Commissioner Hillis:
Just a question for the Zoning Administrator or the Director on the issue Commissioner Richards brought up. If Starbuck's wanted to convert any of the La Boulange stores which are also Formula Retail because they are over the number, can they do that without coming back here for a CU?
Scott Sanchez, Zoning Administrator:
No, I think, in all cases they would likely need a new conditional use authorization in part because many of the La Boulange locations were approved while it was not a formula retail use, they did not go through the formula retail use process themselves, and also secondly, because Starbuck's has more locations than La Boulange.
Commissioner Hillis:
So even if they did they go through the CU process before?
Scott Sanchez, Zoning Administrator:
It would be seen as intensification.
Commissioner Hillis:
That's what I thought, I remember debating that when we have the formula retail hearings.
Commissioner Moore:
I hope that the mayor's office is going to carefully track what is happening with La Boulange, because La Boulange started as a strong neighborhood small business with a lot of benefits throughout the neighborhoods where they are, to let them hang high and dry would be devastating for everybody in the neighborhoods which would be affected by it, but that is actually only commiserating Commissioner Richards. I want to briefly mentioned, that I'm just returning from an international conference which was held in Europe on the restructuring the post-industrial region and I felt - I was the speaker, and spoke about the restructuring of San Francisco with respect to all the things including the Eastern Neighborhoods rezoning and we've done since exceptionally Mission Bay and projects that preceded that. Without going into the details of what was discussed, I’d like to share with you that the problems that this city has, with respect to affordable housing, with respect to PDR displacement and threat to small businesses. In Europe as large as they are here and it might surprise all of you, the protections and techniques being used over there are quite different from ours, but there was a lively discussion about the common ground of the problems that are arising and how to find solutions which are overarching the broader issues of national boundaries. What was interesting to follow the worldwide discussions on the abusive presence of Uber as they are basically being deemed illegally, in both France and Germany; however, they continue despite the fact that the law does not allow them they have created a special task force, who provides huge amounts of tickets and track them down with people in plain clothes appearances.I think the challenges are ahead of all of us, to figure out how to deal with informal businesses and what they do or shouldn't do, but I'll give you more updates as gather my thoughts.
5.46 COOK STREET– Consideration of a Request forLandmark Initiationof a tree.
SPEAKERS:Mei Wing Ling – Tree nomination process
-Dale Rogers – Dismiss or continue
ACTION:After a Motion to nominate failed +2-3 (Antonini, Hillis, Wu against); Continued to July 2, 2015
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
6.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Commissioners, good afternoon, I don't have any particular announcements, but I would like ask Kate Stacy from the City Attorney's office to inform you about an important State Supreme Court decision that occurred this week that impacts our work.
Kate Stacy, Deputy City Attorney:
Gave a brief presentation on the land use decision the California Supreme Court held on Inclusionary Housing.
7.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
•150221 Street Tree Requirement Transfer.Sponsor: Wiener. Staff: D. Sanchez. This Ordinance, introduced by Supervisor Wiener, amends the Planning Code to shift authority to require street trees in case of certain types of development projects from the Planning Department to the Department of Public Works. The Planning Commission heard the proposed Ordinance on May 14, 2015. After brief deliberation, the Commission voted 7-0 to adopt a resolution to recommend the proposed Ordinance with a modification to clarify that the project sponsor is the party responsible for the planting and maintenance of any required street tree(s). At the Land Use Committee hearing, two members of the public spoke about the merits of the proposed Ordinance. They mentioned that the process reforms are very much needed and that, as a whole, the Ordinance helps to meet many of the goals in the Urban Forest Plan. The Land Use Committee then voted unanimously to forward the proposed Ordinance with a positive recommendation to the full Board.
•150532 Interim Zoning Controls - Conditional Use Requirement for Residential Mergers.Sponsor: Avalos. Staff: Rodgers. On Monday the Land Use Committee considered interim controls proposed by Supervisor Avalos. This Commission does not review interim controls so this was the first public hearing on the proposal. The resolution would have required conditional use authorization for any residential merger, including mergers of both legal and illegal existing units. At the Committee hearing, Supervisor Avalos’s aide said that the Supervisor would like to amend the proposal so that it only applies to legal units. The Supervisor said he would convene a meeting of DBI and Planning staff to explore the permanent controls and to discuss whether merger of illegal units should also trigger a conditional use hearing. The Committee made this amendment and moved the resolution out of committee with a positive recommendation. If adopted by the BOS, these interim controls would be in effect for either 18 months or until the adoption of permanent controls.
Summary of Board Activities Week June 15-19, 2015Planning Commission Report: June 18, 2015
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
There were no Planning Department ordinances at the Full Board this week.
INTRODUCTIONS:
•150651. Resolution Calling for a Comprehensive Analysis on the State of Housing and Production, Distribution, and Repair in the Mission.Sponsor: Campos. Resolution calling on the Planning Department to produce a comprehensive series of reports about the status of the Mission Area Plan of the Eastern Neighborhoods, especially with respect to its two primary goals of expanding the production of affordable housing and the preservation of Production, Distribution, and Repair uses in the Mission and report back to the Board of Supervisors.
•150586 REINTRODUCTION Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezoning a Portion of Daggett Street to Public Use/Open Space Zoning.Ordinance amending the Planning Code by revising the Zoning Map to rezone a portion of Daggett Street between 16th Street and 7th Street from Urban Mixed Use/68-X Height and Bulk District to Public Use/Open Space as part of the establishment of Daggett Park; and making findings under the California Environmental Quality Act, and findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Tim Frye, Department staff, here with a very quick update on yesterday’s Historic Preservation Commission hearing. The Architectural Review Committee met first to review the design and provide comments on a sky bridge, connecting 1355 Market Street to 875 Stevenson. Overall the design of the new sky bridge was very well received and the committee members supported the design as is with some very general staff recommendations for when it goes to the full commission for approval, under a major permit alter, later this summer. Then full Commission met and they had three items in their agenda. They unanimously approved an expansion and new equipment and design for the Civic Center Plaza Playgrounds. The Commission complemented not only the trust for public planned, but the Rec and Park Department and the designers on a very contemporary, but sympathetic design for the Civic Center Plaza within its traditional Beaux Arts environment. The Commission also unanimously approved a rehabilitation program for the Conservatory of Flowers. The muntin putty is severely decayed since the reconstruction of the Conservatory due to the salt air and the fog. The Rec and Park Department has spent a year and half examining and testing various applications to present the decay and has come up with a cap that will not change the exterior appearance of the conservatory and allow for a longer life and easier maintenance of those putty joints. So, that was unanimously approved in addition to security cameras around the Conservatory of Flowers and that CofA will move forward. Finally, the Port gave the Commission an informational update on the Waterfront Land Use Plan. There were a number of questions for the Port and it was a pretty lively discussion, but the Port was open to engaging the commission and perhaps having them participate on an advisory committee to talk about the finger piers, sea level rise, seismic, preparing for seismic events and updating the plan in consideration of historic preservation over the next 50 even 100 years, so it sounds like this is just the beginning of the process for the Port, so they'll certainly be coming back to the full Commission to give them updates and certainly engage them in the process. That concludes my report, unless you have questions.
8.2013.0169X(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
525 HARRISON STREET- located on the east side of Harrison Street between 1stand 2ndStreets, Assessor’s Block 3764, Lot 063 -Design Reviewon the proposed project at 525 Harrison Street, which includes demolition of the existing two-story building and the new construction of a 17-story residential tower (approximately 173-ft tall) with 179 dwelling units, 575 gsf of ground floor commercial space and three level of below-grade parking with 97 off-street parking space. Currently, the subject lot is located within the RH-DTR (Rincon Hill Downtown Residential) Zoning District and a 65-X and 65/400-R Height and Bulk District.2013.0159X
SPEAKERS:(M) Speaker – Design presentation
Robert de Rasario -
ACTION:Reviewed and Commented
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:John Elberling – Interim controls for the Mission District
(M) Speaker – 5M
Chris Wong – Rezoning residential areas from RH-1 to RH-2
Georgia Schuttish – Greater staff scrutiny over illegal construction
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
9a.2015-007369PCA(A. STARR: (415) 558-6362)
RESOLUTION WAIVING THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS OPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER BOARD FILE 150571- Proposed Resolution waiving the Planning Commission’s opportunity to review and comment on Board File 150571- Fee Waiver for In-Law Units, so that the proposed ordinance can be approved in concert with the City and County of San Francisco’s 2015-2017 Budget.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt Resolution
SPEAKERS:+ Sophie Hayward – Presentation
ACTION:Adopted Resolution
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
RESOLUTION:19392
9b.2015-007369PCA(A. STARR: (415) 558-6362)
RESOLUTION WAIVING THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS OPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER BOARD FILE 150568-  Proposed Resolution waiving the Planning Commission’s opportunity to review and comment on Board File 150568- Self-Appropriating Citywide Affordable Housing Fund, so that the proposed ordinance can be approved in concert with the City and County of San Francisco’s 2015-2017 Budget.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt Resolution
SPEAKERS:Same as Item 9a.
ACTION:Adopted Resolution
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
RESOLUTION:19393
10.2015-004022PCA MAP(D. SANCHEZ: (415) 575-9082)
REZONING PROPERTIES ON OCEAN AVENUE-Planning Code and Zoning Map Amendmentsto rezone properties facing Ocean Avenue, between Phelan Avenue and Howth Street, from RH-2 and RM-1 Use Districts to the Ocean Avenue Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) District, and to include them in the existing Ocean Avenue NCT; and adopting findings including environmental findings, Section 302 findings and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of May 28, 2015)
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
SPEAKERS:+ Jen Low, Aide to Supervisor Yee – Introduction
+ Dan Weaver – Mixed retail
+ Godfrey De Latorre - Support
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
RESOLUTION:19394
11a.2013.1179CV(T. CHANG: (415) 575-9197)
1700 MARKET STREET- north side of Market Street at the intersection of Haight Street and Gough Street, Lots 016 in Assessor’s Block 0855 - Request forConditional Use Authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 207.6 and 303 to modify the required unit mix, as less than 40% of the total number of proposed dwelling units on site contains at least two bedrooms. The proposal is to demolish the existing two-story commercial building and construct an eight-story 31,673 square foot mixed-use building with 48 dwelling units, 1,549 square feet of ground floor commercial space and 50 bicycle parking spaces, within a Moderate Scale Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT-3) District and 85-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of May 21, 2015)
SPEAKERS:+ Jim Reuben – Project presentation
+ Warner Schmaltz – Response to question
ACTION:After hearing and closing public comment, the ZA indicated an intent to
Grant
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
11b.2013.1179CV(T. CHANG: (415) 575-9197)
1700 MARKET STREET- north side of Market Street at the intersection of Haight Street and Gough Street, Lots 016 in Assessor’s Block 0855 - Request for aVariancefrom Planning Code Section 136 (permitted obstructions) and a modification of the rear yard requirements (Planning Code Section 134), which the Zoning Administrator will consider following the Planning Commission’s consideration of the request for Conditional Use Authorization. This project is located within a Moderate Scale Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT-3) District and 85-X Height and Bulk District.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of May 21, 2015)
SPEAKERS:Same as Item 11a.
ACTION:After hearing and closing public comment, the ZA indicated an intent to Grant
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
12a.2014-000428DRPV(T. CHANG: (415) 575-9197)
162 GRAND VIEW AVENUE- East side of Grand View Ave.; Lot 052 in Assessor’s Block 2754 -Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application 2014.1022.9570 proposing the new construction of a two-story-over-basement, single-family-dwelling in front of the new construction of a three-story-over-garage, single-family-dwelling under Building Permit Application Number 2014.1022.9565 on a vacant lot.  The project is located within a RH-2 (Residential, Home, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do not take Discretionary Review and Approve
WITHDRAWN
12b.2014-000428DRPV(T. CHANG: (415) 575-9197)
162 GRAND VIEW AVENUE- east side of Grand View Ave.; Lot 052 in Assessor’s Block 2754 -Request forVariancefrom Planning Code Section 134 for the new construction of a single-family-dwelling in the required rear yard and Planning Code Section 132 for the new construction of a single-family-dwelling in the required front setback. The project is located within a RH-2 (Residential, Home, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:After hearing and closing public comment, the ZA indicated an intent
to Grant
13a.2013.1662DRP(S.VELLVE: (415) 558-6263)
3591 JACKSON STREET- south side between Locust and Spruce Streets; Lot 016in Assessor’s Block 0987 -Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2014.08.06.3203 (Demolition) proposing to demolish a single-family dwelling of approximately 3,400 square feet within the RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do not take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:Ryan Patterson – Request for continuance
ACTION:Without a hearing, Continued to June 25, 2015
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
13b.2013.1662DRP(S.VELLVE: (415) 558-6263)
3591 JACKSON STREET- south side between Locust and Spruce Streets; Lot 016in Assessor’s Block 0987 -Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2014.08.06.3204 (New Construction), proposing to construct a single-family dwelling of approximately 7,000 square feet in the same general footprint as the existing structure within the RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do not take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:Same as Item 13a.
ACTION:Without a hearing, Continued to June 25, 2015
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Fong, Johnson
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
Adjournment – 4:07 P.M.
ADOPTED:July 2, 2015
You have reached the archived site of the San Francisco Planning DepartmentThis site is no longer active as of Feb 18, 2019For the most up-to-date news and informationVisit our current site
City and County of San Francisco