This website offers functionality that requires JavaScript. To easily turn ON JavaScript you can follow the instructions provided on the following websites:Enable JavaScriptandWikiHow
SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, March 19, 2015
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
COMMISSIONER ABSENT:Johnson
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 12:05 p.m.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Anne Brask, Kevin Guy, Rich Sucre, Diego Sanchez, Kimia Haddadan, Debra Dwyer, Andrew Perry, Alexis Kirby, Omar Masry, and Jonas P. Ionin – Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition.
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1a.2014.1426CV(M. Smith: (415) 558-6322)
4022 – 4026 24thSTREET-north side of the street between Castro and Noe Streets; Lot 010 in Assessor’s Block 3656-Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections728.21, 728.41, and 303 to construct an addition at the rear of the building that would add two dwellings and expand the existing ground floor commercial space beyond the 2,499 gross square-foot use size limitation for the District and establish a restaurant with a type 47 ABC license (d.b.a. Tom Rai) that would retain the existing place of entertainment use but amend the conditions of approval contained in Motion 8778 that pertain to the use to expand the hours and permit amplified entertainment. The project includes remodeling the storefront and adding a roof deck with two stair penthouses for access.The project also requires a parking reduction pursuant to Section 161 of the Code and a rear yard variance pursuant to Section 134 of the Code for the ground floor portion that extends into the required rear yard.The project site is located within the 24thStreet/ Noe Valley Neighborhood Commercial District and 40-X Height and Bulk Districts.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
(Proposed for Continuance to March 26, 2014)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to March 26, 2015
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
1b.2014.1426CV(M. SMITH: (415) 558-6322)
4022 – 4026 24thSTREET-north side of the street between Castro and Noe Streets; Lot 010 in Assessor’s Block 3656-Request for arear yard variancepursuant to Section134 of thePlanning Code to construct athree-story addition at the rear of a mixed-use building. The proposed addition would extend the depth of the building to the rear property line at the ground floor and add two dwelling units to the property. The project also requires a parking reduction pursuant to Section 161 of the Code.The project site is located within the 24thStreet/ Noe Valley Neighborhood Commercial District and 40-X Height and Bulk Districts.
(Proposed for Continuance to March 26, 2014)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to March 26, 2015
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
2.2015-000060CUA(A. PERRY: (415) 575-9017)
327 CAPITOL AVENUE- West side of Capitol Ave. between Broad and Farallones Streets; Lot 052 in Assessor’s Block 7106 - Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303, 209.3(f), 710.81, and 790.50 to establish a Large Institution Child Care Facility (d.b.a. Little Bear School) for a maximum of 90 pre-school age children at the first and second floors of a former religious facility that will be vacating the building. The project is located within a Neighborhood Commercial Cluster Zoning District (NC-1), a Residential House, One-Family District (RH-1), and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
(Proposed for Continuance to June 11, 2015)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to June 11, 2015
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2014-002573CUA(A. BRASK: (415) 575-9078)
1008 LARKIN STREET-Northeast corner of Larkin and Post Streets, Lot 014 in Assessor’s Block 0301 -Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303, 723.44, and 790.91 to establish a restaurant (d.b.a The Saratoga) at the ground and basement floors in the currently vacant space, as well as Planning Code Section 121.2 for the use size of the restaurant, totaling 4,200 square-feet.The project is located within the Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD) and 130-E Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 12, 2015)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
MOTION:19335
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
4.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for March 5, 2015
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted as Corrected
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
5.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
Want to take this opportunity to publicly thank the media, the Chronicle and allthe networks and radio stations who covered the event last Thursday where the foundation formed by my wife in the memory of our deceased son, Peter Patrick Madigan Antonini, gifted a numberof wet suits to the San Francisco Fire Department, and I'vegotten calls and e-mails from scores of people in response to that and I really appreciate, how well, and how sensitive that was handled and those wet suits will help to protect our rescuers and make easier for them to save people who are unfortunate enough to be caught in the waters of the San Francisco Bayor the ocean and they are at risk, in particularly, I wanted to mention Mr. Sanders, Mr. Sanders are head of our IT Department who gave me some very nice pictures of our deceased son Peter with his wife, who were in the same class in St. Ignatius in 2000. I wanted to thank everyone.
D.DEPARTMENT MATTERS
6.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I just want to give you another update on short-term rental registration. We had a three hour drop-in period, last night from 4:00 to 7:00 P.M. where potential applicants could come into register without an appointment. We wanted to make sure – we have about 15 city staff lined up to take registrations. We actually registered 80 people last night, had a lot of people come, which was very good. We still do have a number of appointments coming up. We got about a 1,000 phone calls at this point, so we're continuing to get a lot of interest in registering for short-term rentals. I believe that you'll be having a hearing tentatively April 2nd,although that might becontinued, butthere is a hearing coming up where we'll be considering follow-up legislation as well an update the program. That concludes my report for today.
7.(K. GUY: (415) 558-6163)
TRINITY PLAZA PUBLIC ART PROGRAM-Informational
SPEAKERS:+ Steven Ronzon – Trinity Plaza Art Program
+ Shandra Ceritto – Art installation
+ence Argent – Desciption of installation
ACTION:None – Informational
8.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·150155 General Plan - Repealing Ordinance No. 97-14 - Adoption of 2014 Housing Element.Sponsors: Mayor, Wiener. Staff: Dischinger, Mohan.The Planning Commission heard this item on February 5 and voted unanimously to recommend approval to the Full Board.At the Land Use hearing, Supervisor Kim and Supervisor Cohen (Weiner- absent) had a few comments regarding current growth-both in population and units in the pipeline, particular in regards to affordable housing production. The item was recommended to the full Board as a committee report.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
140954 Planning Code - Exceptions from Dwelling Unit Density Limits and from Other Specified Code Requirements. Sponsor: Wiener, Breed.This item passed its second read at the Board.150155 General Plan - Repealing Ordinance No. 97-14 - Adoption of 2014 Housing Element. Sponsors: Mayor, Wiener. Staff: Dischinger, Mohan.The Housing Element passed on the first read (9-1, Farrell No, Weiner absent) with no Supervisor comments.
INTRODUCTIONS:
·150271 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezoning Properties on Ocean Avenue. Sponsor: Yee.Ordinance amending the Planning Code and the Zoning Map to rezone properties facing Ocean Avenue, between Phelan Avenue and Howth Street, from the RH-2 and RM-1 use districts to the Ocean Avenue Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) District, and to include them in the existing Ocean Avenue NCT District; rezone properties facing Ocean Avenue, between Paloma Avenue and 19th Avenue, from NC-1 to NCT-1
·150273 Approval of a 30-Day Extension for Planning Commission Review of an Ordinance (File No. 141036) Amending the Regulation of Short-Term Residential Rentals.Sponsor: Kim, Campos.Done so that the Short-term Rental Ordinance could be continued to April 23.
·150222 Ordinance amending the Administrative Code to establish the membership of the Our Children, Our Families Council.Sponsor: Yee.Requires the Planning Director to be a voting member on the council, and Planning Staff to provide data on the production of family housing in the City.This item will not come to you for review.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
Good afternoon Commissioners, Tim Frye, Department staff here to share with you a couple items from yesterday’s Historic Preservation Commission hearing. The Commission’s Culture Heritage Assets Committeebegan, convened another meeting where Regina Dick-Endrizzi from the Office of SmallBusiness came to speak about the Legacy Business Registration and the committee had a number ofquestions about the administration of the program, which Office of Small Business has welcomed any input from the committee and the HPC, and the Department’s plans on representing the HPC at the Small Business Commission’s meeting on Monday, wherethey'llbegin to talk about how the program will be implemented as there's a Board of Supervisors deadline of September 30th to come up with a plan on how that registry will work. The full Commission then met and their first item was election of officers. The Commission unanimously elected Commissioner Andrew Wolfram as President and Commissioner Hyland as Vice-President. They also thanked former President Hasz for his service over the last several years as Commission President.The commission had one item on its calendar, which although was an important item that generated a lot of discussion, this is something that former President Hasz in particular felt very strongly about and he came to you about a month ago to talk about, The Commission’s desire to create some clear policies around their expectations for their review of preservation alternatives and the preservation sections in draft EIRs.The Commission continued that item about a month ago for the Department to consider some comments received by members of the public, in particular some lengthy comments by San Francisco Architectural Heritage, as well as their comments and questions of whether or not the facade retention needed to be a separated section within the resolution. Ultimately, they passed it – and the staff made those revisions and staff presented the revised resolution to them which they unanimously approved. The resolution outlines their expectations for full preservation alternatives, partial preservation alternatives, the level of information they would to see graphically and a written explanation of a proposed project and any known potential impact identified in the draft EIR as well as a framework of what they expect at the presentation before the HPC during the review and comment phase.As I said it was unanimously approved. We're finalizing the resolution right now, we are going to share with the Planning Commission and I am sure you'll be interested and again, the HPC has offered to have a dialogue about it, whether the members – some members of the Commission during this report at a future hearing or you schedule a joint hearing but they are very eager to collaborate with you to make sure there's coordination during the review between the draft EIR documents, so that concludes my comments.
BOARD OF APPEALS- (Jonas Ionin, Commission Secretary for Scott Sanchez, Zoning Administrator):
Commissioners, the Zoning Administrator asked to report on the Board of Appeals hearinglast night. They heard the variance for 26 Hodges Alley that you’ve heard, the DR, for the project, last week. The Board unanimously upheld that variance decision, and also there was a recent appointment to the Board of Appeals. Rick Swig, was appoint to the Board.
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:Amy Faraweiss – Harding Theater
Jim Meko – Floor in building heights.Fire additional feet for general floor retail.
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
9.2013.0069Z(R. SUCRÉ: (415) 575-9108)
241-261 LOOMIS STREET- east side of Loomis Street between Industrial Street and Oakdale Avenue, Assessor’s Block 5583, Lots 010, 014 and 015.Request toInitiate Zoning Map Amendment, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 302 and 306, to amend San Francisco Zoning Map Sheet No.SU10 to include Block No. 5583, Lots 010, 014 and 015 (241-261 Loomis Street) in the Bayshore Boulevard Home Improvement Special Use District. Currently, the subject lots are located within a PDR-2 (Core Production, Distribution and Repair) Zoning District, Industrial Protection Zone Special Use District, and 65-J Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:Adopt a Resolution to Initiate; and schedule a hearing
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 5, 2015)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued Indefinitely
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
10.2015-000180PCA(D. SANCHEZ: (415) 575-9082)
NOISE REGULATIONS RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL USES NEAR PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT [BOARD FILE NO. 141298]- Building, Administrative, Planning, and Police Code Amendmentsintroduced by Supervisor Breed to (1) require attenuation of exterior noise for new residential structures and acoustical analysis and field testing in some circumstances; (2) to provide that a Place of Entertainment (POE) permitted for 12 months not become a public or private nuisance on the basis of noise for nearby residents of newly constructed or converted residential structures; (3) to authorize the Entertainment Commission to hold a hearing on a proposed residential use near a POE, and require the project sponsor’s participation in the hearing; (4) to authorize the Entertainment Commission to measure noise conditions at such project sites and provide comments and recommendations regarding noise to the Planning Department and Department of Building Inspection; (5) to require lessors and sellers of residential property to disclose to lessees and purchasers potential noise and other inconveniences associated with nearby POE’s and authorize civil penalties for not providing disclosure; (6) to require that such disclosure requirements be recorded against a residential property in a Notice of Special Restrictions; (7) to require the Planning Department and Commission to consider noise issues when reviewing proposed residential projects; (8) and to specify factors concerning noise for the Entertainment Commission to review when considering granting a POE permit; and adopting findings, including environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101and directing the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors to forward the Ordinance to specified state agencies upon final passage.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 12, 2015)
SPEAKERS:+ Conner Johnston, Aide to Supervisor Breed – The Independent, livemusic venues
+Adam Taylor, Aide to Supervisor Weiner – Nightlife and entertainment industry
+ Joselyn Kane – Groundbreaking legislation recognizing nightlife
+ Bryant Tan – Mitigating impacts
+ (M) Speaker – Music venues are loud
+ Barry Sinaground – Housing and entertainment may co-exist
+ Guy Carson – Housing next door to Café du Nord
+ (M) Speaker, GM for Independent – Event producers train at small local venues
+ (F) Speaker – Support
+ Dennis Juarez – Uninformed new condo owners, SF hotbed for music, culture and art
+ Alan Scott – Presentation of entertainment venues
+ Ramona Downey – Ask the tenants to be notified ahead of time
+ Tom Murphy – Value of the music industry
+ Amy Bailey – Excellent idea and long overdue
+ Glenn Nelson – Harmony between venues and neighborhoods
+ Ben Blymond – Communication
+ Tom Tempron – Support
+ Paul Wells – Support
+ Stephan Constellano – Welcome legislation
+ ClintBomack – Support
+ Terrance Hallin – Sound proofing
+ Matt Cumin – Reasonable legislation
+ Lee Anne Lewis – Best City in the country for rock n roll
+ Amy Faraweiss – Benefits to the Harding Theater
+ Andy Blue – Sensible measure
+ Parker Gibbs – Music holds all of us together
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
RESOLUTION:19336
11.2015-002003PCA(K. HADDADAN: (415) 575-9068)
CITY HOUSING BALANCE MONITORING AND REPORTING-Planning Code Amendmentto require the Planning Department to monitor the balance between new market rate housing and new affordable housing, and publish a bi-annual Housing Balance Report; requiring an annual hearing at the Board of Supervisors on strategies for achieving and maintaining the required housing balance in accordance with San Francisco’s housing production goals; and making environmental findings, Planning Code, Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
SPEAKERS:+ April Veneracion-Ng – Aide to Super visor Kim – Introduction to legislation
+ Katherine Wo – Affordable housing
= Thomas Ray – Future development should be land on existing needs and residents, not developers
= (F) Speaker – Hope, Home
+ Christie Hakim – Social justice issues
= Julian Ball – Need more
+ Allan Lowe – Support without amendments
+ Gleb Bussai – Support
+ Raymond Castillo – SOMA youth
+ John Elberling – Prop K resources
+ Angelica Cobande – Implement now
+ Joseph Smooke – Displacement, housing crisis
+ Alexandra Goldman – Support the ordinance
+ Chris Dorazo – Affordable housing
+ Theresa Imperial – Affordable housing
+ Derrick Brown – Affordable housing
+ Feng Kung – Housing, don’t delay
+ Tom Temprano – Housing balance
+ Peter Cohen – Support
+ Feng Kung – Housing, don’t delay
+ Tom Temprano – Housing balance
+ Peter Cohen – Support
+ Ryan Thayer – Support
+ Judy Barbonio – Support
+ Okoro – Support
+ Iris Bigglowitz – Support
+ Erik Arguello – Support
+ (M) Speaker – Support
+ Kay Walker – Culture shock, evictions
+ Kristi Kissell – Rental increases
+ Christine Olague – Setting policy
+ Amy Fairweiss – Support sustainable development
+ Karen Babbitt – Sierra Club support
+ Andy Blue – Affordable housing
ACTION:Adopted a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
RESOLUTION:19337
12.2007.0347E(D. DWYER: (415) 575-9031)
SECOND STREET IMPROVEMENT PROJECT, SUPPLEMENT TO THE BICYCLE PLAN EIR- Second Street, between Market and King Streets -Public Hearing on the Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Report. The San Francisco Public Works (Public Works) would implement improvements along Second Street to create a multi-modal corridor and improve safety and access for pedestrians, bicyclists and transit riders as well as drivers. The proposed project includes the following improvements:widen sidewalks between Harrison and Townsend streets; install one-way cycle track bicycle facilities in both directions on Second Street; install transit boarding islands at most transit stops along with planted medians; eliminate two channelized right-turn lanes from northbound Second Street at Harrison Street; install Americans with Disabilities Act-compliant curb ramps; plant street trees; install site furnishings (trash receptacles, bike racks, benches, and pedestrian lighting); and grind and repave the asphalt, curb-to-curb.The travel lanes along Second Street would generally be reduced from two to one in each direction, in order to install bicycle facilities; left turns would be restricted at most intersections and a pedestrian/bicycle phase would be implemented at all intersections along Second Street.In compliance with the San Francisco Complete Streets Policy (Public Works Code Section 2.4.13), Public Works would rehabilitate and replace aging sewer facilities along the project corridor, construct/install/relocate drainage facilities, and place overhead utilities underground on Second Street from Stillman to Townsend streets.Project approvals will be heard by the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency Board of Directors and the San Francisco Board of Supervisors for changes to the public right of way including sidewalk legislation.
Preliminary Recommendation: Review and Comment
Note: Written comments will be accepted at the Planning Department until 5:00 p.m. on March 30, 2015.
SPEAKERS:- (M) Speaker – Congestion impacts
-Dorothy Dana – 2ndStreet traffic
-John Gassotter – 2ndStreet traffic
ACTION:Reviewed and Commented
13.2014-002385OFA(R. SUCRÉ: (415) 575-9108)
101 TOWNSEND STREET- located at the southeast corner of Townsend and 2ndStreets, Lot 015 in Assessor’s Block 3794- Request for anOffice Development Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 321, 322 and 842.66 to legalize a change in use from PDR (Production, Distribution and Repair) to office use and authorize 41,206 gross square feet from the Office Development Annual Limit. The project would maintain the existing ground floor retail space (approximately 1,600 square feet). The subject property is located within the South End Landmark District, and is located within the MUO (Mixed-Use Office) Zoning District, and 105-F Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of March 5, 2015)
SPEAKERS:+ Jim Reuben – Project presentation
+ Michael Anthony – Support
+ Alice Rogers – Support
-Joel Coppel – Not sustainable development continuance
-Sue Hestor – Illegal occupancy, housing
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
MOTION:19338
14.2014-001938CUA(A. PERRY: (415) 575-9017)
3657 TARAVAL STREET- Southeast corner of Taraval Street and 47thAvenue; Lot 038 in Assessor’s Block 2379 - Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303, 781.1(a), and 790.91 to establish a Restaurant at the first floor of a former retail storefront that is currently vacant; additionally, pursuant to Planning Code Section 710.27, to extend the hours of operation until 2 a.m. The project is located within a Neighborhood Commercial Cluster Zoning District (NC-1), the Taraval Street Restaurant Sub-district, and 40-X Height and Bulk District. Interior tenant improvements are proposed under Building Permit Application 2014.08.13.3776. The proposal will not expand the building, and will have a use size of approximately 1,250 square feet. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Suheil Shatara – Project presentation
+ David Quinby – Owner comments
+ Stephan Costellano – Hours of operation
+ (F) Speaker – Improved the riptide
+ (F) Speaker – No problems experienced living across the street
+ Jeanne Fontana – Need a restaurant open late
+ Mary Knuckles – Family style sit down restaurant
+ (M) Speaker – No opposition, living directly above
ACTION:Approved with Conditions as Amended to include allow extended hours of operation up to 2:00 a.m.
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
MOTION:19339
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
15.2014-000348DRP(A. KIRBY: (415) 575-9133)
981 GROVE STREET– south side between Steiner and Fillmore Streets; Lot 024 in Assessor’s Block 0803 – Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2014.05.14.5715 proposing to construct a vertical addition at the rear of a two-story single-family dwelling located within a RH-2 (Residential House, Two-Family) District, 40-X Height and Bulk District, and the Alamo Square Landmark District. A Certificate of Appropriateness for the proposed project was approved by the Historic Preservation Commission on August 6, 2014, and the Zoning Administrator granted a rear yard variance for the project on October 2, 2014, under Case No. 2014.0425AV.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Staff Analysis: Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of February 26, 2015)
SPEAKERS:- Francis Campra – Light impacts
-(F) DR Requestor – Privacy, loss of light
+ Jim Westover – Project presentation
ACTION:No DR, Approved as Proposed
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
DRA No:0411
16.2014.1377D(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
1 LA AVANZADA STREET-Sutro Tower, Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 2724 -Mandatory Discretionary Review, pursuant to Planning Code Section 306.9, of Building Permit Application Nos. 2013.04.12.4453 and 2013.04.12.44522, proposing the installation of 51 broadcast and reception antennas, microwave dishes and camera mounts at various levels on the tower; replacement and relocation of one existing auxiliary radio antenna to a higher level on the tower; addition of one ground-level approximately 30-foot wide satellite dish; and road, retaining wall, stairway, driveway, and erosion control improvements; within a RH-1 (D) (Residential - House, One Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h).
Staff Analysis:  Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of February 5, 2015)
SPEAKERS:+ Kristen Thell Peters – Project presentation
+ Dee Dee Workman – SF Chamber of Commerce support
+ Randy Nomberg – Azteca Support
+ Jim Keith – Community outreach
-Christine Linenbach – Trees
-Sue Li Chen - Opposed
ACTION:Took DR and Approved with Conditions proposed by staff
AYES:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards
ABSENT:Johnson
DRA No:0412
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
Adjournment - 6:23 P.M
ADOPTED:April 2, 2015
You have reached the archived site of the San Francisco Planning DepartmentThis site is no longer active as of Feb 18, 2019For the most up-to-date news and informationVisit our current site
City and County of San Francisco