This website offers functionality that requires JavaScript. To easily turn ON JavaScript you can follow the instructions provided on the following websites:Enable JavaScriptandWikiHow
SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers, Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Thursday, September 10, 2015
12:00 p.m.
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:Fong, Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 12:09 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:John Rahaim – Planning Director, Omar Masry, Alexandra Kirby, Richard Sucre, Johnathan DiSalvo, Laura Ajello, Britany Bendix, Lisa Chen, Tina Chang, Diego Sanchez, Kimia Haddadan, and Jonas P. Ionin – Commission Secretary
SPEAKER KEY:
+ indicates a speaker in support of an item;
-indicates a speaker in opposition to an item; and
= indicates a neutral speaker or a speaker who did not indicate support or opposition
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1a.2013.0677X(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
2000-2070 BRYANT STREET- located along the west side of Bryant Street at 18thStreet, Lots 001, 002, and 021 in Assessor’s Block 4022 - Request for aLarge Project Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Section 329, for the demolition of the buildings on the project site, and the new construction of a six-story mixed-use building (measuring approximately 286,381 gross square feet; approximately 68-ft tall) with up to 274 dwelling units, approximately 5,140 square feet of ground floor retail, up to 160 off-street parking spaces, 248 Class 1 bicycle parking spaces, 26 Class 2 bicycle parking spaces, and private and common open spaces. Under the LPA, the project is seeking a modification to certain Planning Code requirements, including: 1) rear yard (Planning Code Section 134); 2) open space (Planning Code Section 135); 3) permitted obstructions over the street, alley, rear yard or useable open space (Planning Code Section 136); 4) ground floor ceiling height for non-residential uses (Planning Code Section 145.1); 5) off-street freight loading (Planning Code Section 152.1); and; 6) accessory use provisions for dwelling units (Planning Code Sections 329(d)(10) and 803.3(b)(1)(c)). The subject property is located within the UMU (Urban Mixed-Use) Zoning District, and 68-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of June 18, 2015)
(Proposed for Indefinite Continuance)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to Indefinitely
AYES:Fong, Wu, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards, Antonini
1b.2013.0677CUA(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
2000-2070 BRYANT STREET- located along the west side of Bryant Street at 18thStreet, Lots 001, 002, and 021 in Assessor’s Block 4022 - Request for aConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317, for the demolition of three existing dwelling units. The subject property is located within the UMU (Urban Mixed-Use) Zoning District, and 68-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of June 18, 2015)
(Proposed for Indefinite Continuance)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to Indefinitely
AYES:Fong, Wu, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards, Antonini
2.2013.1516C(B. BENDIX:  (415) 575-9114)
450 SOMERSET STREET– west side of Somerset Street, between Bacon Street and Wayland Street, Lots 007 and 008A in Assessor’s Block 6044 - Request forConditional Use Authorizationunder Planning Code Sections 209.1, 303 and 304 to enlarge a school (d.b.a. Alta Vista School) from 26,438 gross square feet up to 42,356 gross square feet, and to increase the maximum enrollment of 315 students up to 393 students. Under the PUD, the project is seeking a modification to the rear yard requirement of Planning Code Section 134. The property is within an RH-1 (Residential, House, One-Family) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
(Proposed for Indefinite Continuance)
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Continued to Indefinitely
AYES:Fong, Wu, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards, Antonini
B.CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and may be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2014-002322CUA(O. MASRY: (415) 575-9116)
251 BARNEVELD AVENUE-northeast corner of Barneveld Avenue and McKinnon Avenue; Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 5286A-Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 210.3 and 303 to establish a macro Wireless Telecommunications Services (WTS) Facility for Verizon Wireless, featuring a 65-foot tall freestanding faux water tank and associated ground mounted equipment area, within a PDR-2 (Core Production, Distribution, & Repair) Zoning District, and 65-J Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Wu, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards, Antonini
MOTION:19452
4.2015-000293CUA(J. DISALVO: (4150 575-9182)
3159 MISSION STREET-south side of Mission Street between Precita and Powers Avenues; Lots 017 in Assessor’s Block 5518 - Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303, 712.54 and 790.60 to establish a Massage Establishmentuse(d.b.a. Balance Traditional Thai Massage) within the NC-3 (Moderate Scale Neighborhood Commercial) Zoning District and 50-X Height and Bulk District.  This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Fong, Wu, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards, Antonini
MOTION:19453
C.COMMISSION MATTERS
5.Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes for August 13, 2015
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Adopted
AYES:Fong, Wu, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards, Antonini
6.Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:Well 3 things briefly first of all, a lot of us are interested in things that had originated in San Francisco and there was one in the green sheet this week. Angelo Hank Luisetti, who grew up in San Francisco went to Galileo and then played at Stanford, originated the one hand shot and one hand jump shop in basketball. Before that everybody just stood flatfooted and threw the ball with two hands, so it made the game a lot more interesting. Second thing is Scott Wiener, Supervisor Wiener, has initiated discussion of a master plan for subways for the future of San Francisco which is long overdue. It seems like we always kind of do things push and pull. Even if the funding is not there for this type of thing, I think it is important to have a blueprint for the future that considers where the best places are because we're a very dense, small city and every other dense, small city in the world has transit in its own right-of-way that are far superior to what we have here and we're having this competition between buses and cars and pedestrians on the surface. So we need a plan I'm in total agreement of what he's talking about. Third, article recently heard that there was going to be an auction for Parcel F, which was a Transbay parcel, which had hoped to bring up to $200 million in an open option. A day or two before, a number of the possible parties that were going to bid on it pulled out of the auction and one reason stated was that there's fear about not getting an entitlement after paying a couple of million dollars for a parcel. The fear of Prop M limitations: you might be stuck with something that you couldn’t get an entitlement for or it would be delayed quite a few years. So, we really have to address this soon because as you've read we need a lot more for the Transbay terminal to be completed and we'll need considerably more in the terms of billions to have the Transbay the extension of from Caltrain to the terminal to make it whole. This funding is very important and we've got to be able to allay this fear that possible bidders may have and come up with a solution that would couple a Prop M increase obviously has to go before the voters with consideration...
Commissioner Fong:Commissioner Antonini, I want to be careful you're not supporting a particular measure one way or another.
Commissioner Antonini:
I didn't think there was a measure here on anything. This is just in general; it’s something that’s before us, Prop M discussion…
Commissioner Richards:
1985 Prop M.
Commissioner Antonini:Okay. Well anyway long story short we need to deal with this issue in the future and that's my comments.
Commissioner Richards:A couple of things I saw the advanced calendar and I saw on October 15th there’s a Market Octavia update. I was kind of wondering or not, I think we’ve been talking a lot about the Eastern Neighborhoods update, I was wondering if maybe we mixed them up or the Eastern Neighborhoods is coming as well on the advance calendar? Maybe Eastern Neighborhoods versus Market Octavia…
Commission Secretary:They're both coming to you.
Commissioner Richards:
Second question, does anybody understand what a Ted Egan report is? Is it out yet?
Director Rahaim:It is out not in its final form, but a draft came out last week. He’s not issued the final report yet. As soon as he does we'll get it to you.
Commissioner Richards:Would we get a chance to see the draft?
Director Rahaim:
I don’t know the answer to that.
Commissioner Richards:
Okay, I would love to take a look. Couple of other things: we got a couple of letters this past week in relationship to the long meetings. Ones that go12 hours, I think two or three letters, the gist of the letters were: hey we come and sit here all day and a lot of people fall off and leave by the time we get to hear the project, whatever side you are on, they don’t really get the due process of getting up here and speaking because it's been hours and hours and hours? Another person wrote: hey can we budget the meetings a little bit better? I’m kind of thinking maybe we should try to have a goal of no more than eight hours or no more than ten hours? So we really get an understanding and try to manage the time because it is kind of brutal, I think, sitting up here when the air conditioning is off and you’re here 11 hours trying to make a really informed and good decision. Maybe that is something this Commission could do or the Rules Committee can tackle but maybe we could try to set a time to manage too, just an idea. Two or three other quick unrelated things: we always hear about change happening in the city and we always bemoan the fact this place closed or that place closed. In my community we have The Eagle closed 3 or 4 years ago, thank God it opened up again. But the question I always ask people when a business close was, how often did you frequent it? They say, well I used to go once every x number of months. My response always was, well how do you think they can stay in business given the cost to run the business? This past week we actually have The Palace Hotel famed buffet on Sunday is no longer because the demand actually kind of has fallen off for the $100 brunch even given the amount of money have in the city, because not enough people have been going. So I actually part question some of my friends and said, when was the last time you went to the brunch because they bemoan the fact that another thing is changing in the city. Personally for me it’s probably been since 1997 since I’ve been there. So you start putting these things together and you go, if you really want places to stay in business, you’re going to have to frequent them more often so that they can actually stay in business, I guess that’s the moral of the story here, so no more brunch at The Palace. Couple of other things, the intersection for the Arts has a show at 925 Mission, which is the address for the 5M project, opened until October 18th. It’s actually portraits of folks from The Tenderloins. After reading the article I haven't been there yet. I think it is a really, really great project to go with really great installation to take a look at because it really humanize the face of neighborhood we're actually approving projects in. I think I really encourage everybody to go to the October 18th. Lastly, interesting enough maybe a best in class example, I was in Palm Springs I was in a rental property for a week. When we showed up in front of the rental property at the door was the Good Neighbor Policy. I think perhaps maybe we could put one of these together for whatever form of short-term rentals is coming into the city because the first thing when you open was no music in the backyard, no screaming at 10 o’clock.We actually abided by the rules and we had no problems even though all the other houses around where we were staying had these signs in the front lawn saying no short-term rentals. It was a really good thing and I think that it’s probably something we can maybe study or look at it and actually have as a part of our program when people do register for short-term rentals. Thank you.
Commissioner Moore:
I received a letter regarding the lateness of our meetings. The comment I like to add is that I think we have to admit to ourselves that we also get tired with having to sit here and do equal justice for each project we hear in terms of preparation as well as going through it. When it comes to 10 o'clock, 11 o'clock and 12 o'clock including important calendar items coming late, it is physically impossible, mentally impossible to be totally on top of it even if we try. I’d like us to humbly admit that to ourselves and find ways to constructively spread the more important projects apart in a manner that the meetings so more equally weighs, so that we can indeed do justice for everything that’s in front of us. The second point I’d like to make is that is in rebuttal to Commissioner Antonini's comment or illumination to Commissioner Antonini’s comment the Parcel F in Transbay is protected through the Transbay Plan and planning effort itself. The fact the parcel ultimately did not receive a bid has something to do that coincided with the major insecurity in the market in China. That rightfully made people aware it happened on the same day. That people are dead right to the fact that they felt uncertain relative to the overall balance investment of what they were doing and that had a direct effect on their decision. It was not just uncertainties about process because the processes in Transbay are quite clear and not impeded by what we are doing here.
Commissioner Fong:
I'm glad you guys brought up the length of our last meeting. I agree it’s a marathon, it taxes us mentally and physically to a point of not being fair to the public I think. Just so you know and the public knows that the President, Vice President and the Commission Secretary meet once a week to try to set out the Advanced Calendar. We do our best to try not to have them pile up but as you know things fall off, things do change, things get extended. We try to make the time certain items whenever possible. I'm kind of curious though if video submission of public comment have ever been tried.
Commissioner Richards:
That's before us in November I think.
Commissioner Fong:
Okay. I’m open to hearing; I think we are open to hearing other ideas about what we could do to make it more effective.
Commissioner Antonini:
One thing that may be helpful and we try to do this with larger projects is have as many hearings we can ahead of the actual decision date to allow input from the public and response by project sponsors and hopefully many of the issues will be resolved before we come up to the final decision and maybe make the hearing a little shorter. It doesn't always happen, but it’s certainly helpful wherever possible to have multiple hearings on a larger project.
Commissioner Johnson:
I definitely agree with everyone. It is challenging when we're here for 12 hours and have to be as sharp at noon as we are at midnight. It’s very hard. One thing I know we've got the Brown Act and obviously we want to hear public comment, but it would be great if we could not only having multiple hearings about big items, but also better advertising and maybe strengthening our policies around organized opposition or organized approval. I think if people sort of knew that was there, I've spoken to different activist groups, some of them didn’t even know they could do that. Maybe lengthening it from 10 to 20 minutes or something might allow us to actually then, with good conscious, be able to limit public comment in some instances. I know that we've had to do that with the successor agency because unlike Planning Commission, we didn't have the room until whenever, we had to be out of there at 5 o’clock. There were times when I’ve had to curtail public comment or make it very short. So maybe sort of again strengthening the organized opposition and organized support and really advertising that strengthening the ability to do that might help a little bit. 3 hours of public comment on one item, we want to hear all the voices but then again there’s a practicality issue.
7.Director’s Announcements
John Rahaim:
Two items today, one to mention I think you may have seen the press release announcing offices on short-term rentals and Kevin Guy, who we all know well, who I will sorely miss in the department, is the new director of that office. I just want to remind you and let you know that office is physically located in the Planning Department. It is staffed by 3 members of the Planning Department, who've been working on registration and enforcement issues, and 3 members of the City Administrator's office, of which Kevin is one. Those 6 folks will physically be in the Planning Department on the fifth floor. Just last week we had, I think, 620 registrations and the numbers are climbing. Just so the members of the public know, who are interested in perhaps doing short-term rentals, there is no waiting on appointments. You could get an appointment next day to come in and register for short-term rentals, so there is no longer any kind of waiting list to do so and we’re up to about 620 registrations. The second thing is just a reminder for you and members of the public that on October 1stas we promised been talking about, we will be having a hearing on the Academy of Arts to update you on the enforcement, the EIR but more specifically we wanted to have a discussion with you about the process for bringing projects to you once the EIR is certified. So I would ask you all to start thinking about different options that we could incorporate into our thinking; we will present you with some options on how we could structure the various approvals: whether it’s geographically, whether it’s by use, whether it’s by types of buildings, whatever, we'll give you those options on October 1st and try to generate a discussion about that. Obviously we can't bring all projects to you at the same time but we can cluster them in a ways that makes sense. That concludes my presentation. Thank you.
Commissioner Moore:Director Rahaim could you perhaps in next week’s packet add short-term of what you were saying so we're a little bit more prepared. It was rather bunch together of what you were saying. Just like an outline of how you trying to organize so that we can develop some ideas that would be great. Just a bullet form of what you're trying to do.
8.Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
• Land Use Committee did not meet this week because of the Labor Day Holiday.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
•150804 Planning, Administrative Codes - Construction of Accessory Dwelling Units - District 8.Sponsor: Wiener. Staff: Haddadan. PASSED Second Read
•150805 Planning, Administrative Codes - Construction of Accessory Dwelling Units -District 3.Sponsor: Christensen. Staff: Haddadan. PASSED Second Read
•150348 Planning Code - Inclusionary Housing Requirements for Group Housing, Affordable Designated Unit Requirements in C-3 Districts. Sponsors: Avalos, Kim and Mar. Staff: Haddadan.Due to a drafting error, the ordinance that was passed by the Board and signed by the Mayor on August 6, 2015, did not include all the amendments approved by the Board and its committee during the legislative process. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors reconsidered this matter. This version passed its first reading this week.
•150465 Planning Code - Accessory Use Entertainment in Specified Western South of Market Districts.Sponsor: Kim. Staff: D. Sanchez. This ordinance would permit Limited Liver Performance permits in the RCD and WMUG Districts. This Commission heard this item on July 16 of this year and voted unanimously to recommend the Ordinance to the Full Board. At the Board hearing this week, the Ordinance unanimously passed it first read.
INTRODUCTIONS
•150871 Planning Code - Technical Amendments and Corrections. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: StarrOrdinance amending the Planning Code to correct errors, reenact previously-existing language that was repealed in error as part of the Article 2 Reorganization Ordinance, update the Code, and make nonsubstantive language revisions to simplify and clarify text; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1.
•150846 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Create Jewish Home of San Francisco Special Use District, 302 Silver Avenue. Sponsor: Avalos. Staff: Chang.Ordinance amending the Planning Code and Zoning Map to create the Jewish Home of San Francisco Special Use District located at 302 Silver Avenue, Assessor's Block No. 5952, Lot No. 002, and to allow an increase in height within portions of the Special Use District; and adopting findings, including environmental findings about the negative declaration and mitigation monitoring and reporting plan, Planning Code, Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1.
•150845 General Plan Amendment - 302 Silver Avenue - Urban Design Element Map 5.Sponsor: Commission. Staff: Chang. Ordinance amending the General Plan by revising Map 5 of the Urban Design Element to change the bulk designation shown on the Map for 302 Silver Avenue, Assessor's Block No. 5952, Lot No. 002; adopting and making findings regarding the Mitigated Negative Declaration prepared in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
No Report
BOARD OF APPEALS:
No Report
E.GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
Speakers:Georgia Schuttish – Illegal demolitions
John Elberling – 5M Gentrifying Consequences
Theresa Imperial – Plan for people, not for development, not for profit
Marie Sorenson – Luxury housing, E4 Plan
Ronald Eugene David Lee – City needs a bath, 55-story tower on the Rock
Eric Arguello – Community Planning around new development
Lotanya Jones – Plan for people, not for profit
Magic – “the audience” Politics becoming the show
Tess Wilborn – Increased scrutiny for Mission Street prefer to stop spot zoning
(M) Speaker – Bright lights, energy levels, Agenda distribution
(F) Speaker – Prop M
The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
9.2015-009096PCA(L. CHEN: (415) 575-9124)
ESTABLISHING A NEW TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY FEE (TSF) [Board File No. 150790]-Planning Code Amendmentestablishing a new citywide Transportation Sustainability Fee and suspending application of the existing Transit Impact Development Fee, with some exceptions, as long as the Transportation Sustainability Fee remains operative; amending Section 401 to add definitions reflecting these changes; amending Section 406 to clarify affordable housing and homeless shelter exemptions from the Transportation Sustainability Fee; making conforming amendments to the Area Plan fees in Article 4 of the Planning Code; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act, and making findings, including general findings, findings of public necessity, convenience and welfare, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval
SPEAKERS:+ Tilly Chang – Transportation Authority introduction
+ Ed Reiskin – SFMTA introduction
+ Sup. Avalos – Support
+ Alicia John Baptiste – TSF revenue projection
= Jake McGoldrick – Residential vs non-residential percentages
+ Peter Strauss – strong support
+ Nicole Ferrara – more needed
+ (F) Speaker – Bicycle Coalition support tiered fee system
+ Tim Collen – support downtown core vs peripheral development
= Sue Hestor – significant legislation, recommendation amendments
= Carolyn Gierhardt-Chare – non-profit, secondary institution
= Elizabeth Miles – retain existing charitable exemption
=Peter Cohen – inappropriate to act today
ACTION:Adopted a Resolution recommending Approval with modifications including:
1.Grandfathering residential project before July 1, 2014 with a 50% fee waiver and residential projects after July 1, 2014 with a 25% fee waiver;
2.Remove the secondary institutions from exemptions and add hospitals;
3.Request the Board consider graduated fee rates up to 33% of nexus by neighborhoods and/or consider no offset for plan area fees; and
Require economic analysis updates every three year rather than five, and include the Planning Commission as an entity that may request analyses sooner.
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards, Fong, Johnson
RESOLUTION:19454
10.2015-008150PCA(D. SANCHEZ: (415) 575-9802)
NOTICE TO TENANTSOF DWELLING UNIT MERGER OR DEMOLITION [Board File No. 150587]-Planning Code Amendmentintroduced by Supervisor Wieneramending the Building Code and the Planning Code to require written and posted notice to all tenants of a building in which demolition or merger of a dwelling unit is proposed; requiring an affidavit and notice if kitchens, stoves or bathrooms would be removed; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and making other findings, including findings of consistency with the General Plan, Planning Code Section 302 and the eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modification
SPEAKERS:+ Andres Power, Aide to Sup. Wiener – Amendment introduction
ACTION:Adopted a Resolution recommending Approval with modifications
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards, Johnson
ABSENT:Fong
RESOLUTION:19455
11.2011.0108U(K. HADDADAN: (415) 575-9068)
45 LANSING STREET–Request forImpact Fee Waiverfor 45 Lansing Street in the amount of $668,045 to provide streetscape improvements on Harrison Street based on the completion of an In-Kind Agreement between the project sponsor and the City.Preliminary Recommendation: Approve
SPEAKERS:None
ACTION:Approved
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards, Johnson
ABSENT:Fong
MOTION:19456
12.2014-002218CUA(L. AJELLO: (415) 575-9142)
2186 GEARY BOULEVARD-northeast corner of Geary Boulevard and Divisadero Street; Lots 072 and 073 in Assessor’s Block 1078- Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(c), 303.1, 703.4 and 712.40 to establish a Formula Retailcable and internet service providerstore (d.b.a. Xfinity) within the NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial District, Moderate Scale) Zoning District and 65-A Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:Scott Adams – notification
ACTION:Continued to October 22, 2015
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards, Johnson, Fong
13.2015-005651CUA(A. KIRBY: (415) 575-9133)
1750 FULTON STREET-north side of Fulton Street between Masonic and Central Avenues; Lots 031 in Assessor’s Block 1175- Request forConditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303(c), 303.1, 703.4, and 713.49 to establish a Formula Retailfinancial service use(d.b.a. Wells Fargo) within the NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial District, Shopping Center) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve with Conditions
SPEAKERS:+ Jim Schively – Project presentation
ACTION:Approved with Conditions
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Moore, Richards, Johnson
ABSENT:Fong, Hillis
MOTION:19457
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
14.2014.1079DRP-03(T. CHANG: (415) 575-9197)
1783 NOE STREET- East side of Noe Street; Lot 016A in Assessor’s Block 6652 - Request forDiscretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application Nos. 2014.0711.1074 and 2014.0711.1073 proposing the demolition of an existing two-story, 1,650 square-foot single-family dwelling and the new construction of a three-story, 5,134 gross square-foot single-family dwelling with a roof deck above. The project is located within an RH-1 (Residential, Home, One-Family) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to Section 31.04(h) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take DR and Approve demolition and new construction as modified
SPEAKERS:-Erdal Tanser – DR presentation
-Sean Harrington – DR2 presentation
-David Rizzoli – DR3 presentation
-Bob Turkas – Shigt in SF neighborhoods
-Yvette Harrington – for Scott Chandler
-Kevin White – housing prices
-Pat Romero Gillory – too tal, too wide, too deep
-Rose Ross Gilly – opposition
-Francis Fury – opposition
-George Schuttish – side yards
+Mark Roger – Sponsor presentation
ACTION:After Hearing and closing public comment; Continued to December 10, 2015
AYES:Wu, Antonini, Hillis, Moore, Richards, Johnson
ABSENT:Fong
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.(Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
AdjournmentAT 6:34 PM
ADOPTED: September 24, 2015https://aca.accela.com/ccsf/Cap/CapDetail.aspx?Module=Planning&TabName=Planning&capID1=14CAP&capID2=00000&capID3=002J6&agencyCode=CCSF
You have reached the archived site of the San Francisco Planning DepartmentThis site is no longer active as of Feb 18, 2019For the most up-to-date news and informationVisit our current site
City and County of San Francisco