<<Project Start>>
2005.0565C
                              
 
                                            
 (S.YOUNG: (415) 558-6346)


2110 CLEMENT STREET
 
- north side between 22
nd
 and 23
rd
 Avenues; Lot 009 in Assessor's Block 1411 - 
Request for Conditional Use
 
authorization
 under Sections 717.27,
 
186.1(b)
 
and 303 of the Planning Code to legalize the extension of the hours of operation of an existing
 
nonconforming
 
full-service restaurant (“My Favorite Cafe”) from 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the Outer Clement Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD) and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
 
 No exterior modifications will be made to the existing building envelope.


           
 Preliminary Recommendation: Disapproval


(Continued from Regular Meeting of December 15, 2005)


           
 NOTE: On September 15, 2005, following public testimony, the Commission closed the public hearing and continued the matter to December 15, 2005, by a vote +4 –0,
 
to allow the operator to comply with the existing conditions.
 
 Commissioners
 
Hughes, W. Lee, Olague were absent.


           
 
(Proposed for Continuance to January 5, 2006)


 


SPEAKERS:
    
 None


ACTION: 
         
 Adopted a motion of intent to approve a nine-month Conditional Use that at the end of which they would/could reapply for a Conditional Use that would then become permanent.
 
 The neighbors would be re-noticed and we would have another hearing, giving us and the neighbors an opportunity to see whether or not there have been any problems with the extended operating hours.
 
 Final Language on January 19, 2006.
 


AYES: 
            
 S. Lee, Alexander, Antonini, W. Lee


NAYES:
           
 Hughes


ABSENT:
         
 Bradford-Bell and Olague


 


5.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2005.0999C
                                          
 
                                        
 (M. LI: (415) 558-6396)


627 Vallejo Street
 
- southwest corner at Columbus Avenue, Lots 019 and 020 in Assessor’s Block 0146 - 
Request for Conditional Use authorization
 to establish a full-service restaurant (dba “King of Thai Noodle House”) of approximately 1,850 square feet.
 
 The subject commercial space was previously occupied by a small self-service restaurant of approximately 940 square feet that operated within a now-vacant supermarket.
 
 The space will be enlarged to accommodate the proposed restaurant, but there will be no physical expansion of the existing building.
 
 The project site is within the North Beach Neighborhood Commercial District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.


Preliminary Recommendation: Disapproval


(Continued from Regular Meeting of December 8, 2005)


NOTE: On December 8, 2005, following public testimony the Commission closed the public hearing and entertained a motion to approve 1000 sq. ft. + 250 sq. ft. for ADA compliance by a vote +3 –2.
 
 Motion Failed. Commissioners S. Lee and Olague voted no.
 
 Commissioners Alexander and Bradford Bell were absent.
 
 The item was continued to January 5, 2006 by a vote +4 –1.
 
 Commissioner Olague voted no.
 
 Commissioners Alexander and Bradford-Bell were absent.


 


SPEAKERS:
    
 None


ACTION: 
         
 Disapproved


AYES:
             
 S. Lee, Alexander, Hughes, Olague and W. Lee


NAYES:
           
 Antonini


ABSENT:
         
 Bradford-Bell


                       
 
MOTION:
          
 17169


 


G.
        
 
REGULAR CALENDAR
 


 


6.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2004.0027
A
CEK
                                               
 
              
 (M. SNYDER: (415) 575-6891)


900 MINNESOTA STREET
 
- the north half of the block bounded by Minnesota Street, 20
th
 Street, Indiana Street and 22
nd
 Street, Lot 027 in Assessor’s Block 4106 -
 
Request for a Certificate of Appropriateness
 
to demolish four structures, partially demolish and rehabilitate a fifth structure, alter and rehabilitate a sixth structure, and construct four new structures in the Dogpatch Historic District.
 
 
The resultant project would include up to 142 dwelling units, approximately 168 off-street parking spaces, approximately 6,300 square feet of office space, and approximately 2,100 square feet of restaurant / commercial use, configured around two inner courtyards.
  
 The subject property is within an M-2 (Heavy Industrial) District, a 50-X Height and Bulk District, and the Dogpatch Historic District.
 
 The southeastern portion of the site, which is comprised of a private open space and would continue to be used as private open space, is located in an RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) District and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.


Preliminary Recommendation:
 
 Approval with Conditions


(Continued from the Regular Meeting of December 15, 2005)


 


SPEAKERS:
    
 None


ACTION:
          
 Approved the Certificate of Appropriateness


AYES:
             
 S. Lee, Antonini, Hughes, Olague, W. Lee


ABSENT:
         
 Bradford Bell, Alexander


           
 MOTION:
          
 17168


 


7.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2005.0666D
                                                      
 
 
 
               
 (S. VELLVE: (415) 558-6263)


3020-3024 BUCHANAN STREET
 
-
 
east side between Union and Filbert Streets, Lots 034 and 035 in Assessor’s Block 0531 - 
Mandatory Discretionary Review
, under the Planning Commission’s policy requiring review of dwelling unit mergers, of Building Permit Application No. 2005.07.05.6780 proposing to merge two dwelling units into one dwelling unit in a structure located in an RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) District, and 40-X Height/Bulk District.


Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and disapprove the permit.


(Continued from the Regular Meeting of December 15, 2005)


 


SPEAKERS:
    


No name stated, Architect for the project.




We’re here to help get approval for the merger of two units into one home.


Gave a short chronology and description of the project.




Deepak Puri




I live in one of the units.
 


The point I’d like to make is we love living in this neighborhood.


We’ve had a daughter there.
 
 We’ve lived there about 12 years.


All we are asking is that we should not be forced out of the neighborhood just to accommodate this, but we’d like to continue living there.


We’re a moderate-income family and honestly, we appreciate your help with this.




Carol Fasio




I really have nothing else to add except I’d like to keep my neighbors in the neighborhood.


They are good neighbors.
 
 They’re middle class, they’re not wealthy, and I’d like to keep them in the neighborhood.


I support what they want to do.




 


ACTION:
          
 Did not take Discretionary Review and approved as proposed


AYES:
             
 S. Lee, Antonini, Hughes, and W. Lee


NAYES:
           
 Olague


ABSENT:
         
 Bradford-Bell and Alexander


 


           
 8.
                                                                                
 
                   
 (L. SCOTT (415) 558-6317)


INFORMATION HEARING ON CODE ENFORCEMENT AT THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT
 
–
 
Review of a background report on enforcement work
 
including staffing, sources and types of complaints, enforcement of Commission Conditions of Approval, Commission priorities for enforcement and general advertising sign enforcement issues.


P
reliminary
 
R
ecommendation
: N
o action required


 


SPEAKERS:


Mylo Hanky - San Francisco Beautiful




We very much appreciate the spirit of cooperation and encouragement that we’ve fostered with the Planning Department.


I’ve become personally angered by this.
 
 Every time you go down the street and you see one or more billboards that are apparently illegal.
 
 And I’ll give you and idea how to stop this.


I take it personally, because it mocks you and this Board and our City and the whole rule of law.


There is a disincentive for operators big and small to come into this town and reap thousands of dollars for illegal billboards that go undetected.
 
 And there is no action on it.


It is in your hands to perhaps create a dedicated position, to give priority to this so it does not keep going to the back burner.


Also, at San Francisco Beautiful, we do want to encourage all the proposals that have been laid out today.


Four years ago, 79.2% of San Franciscans said in Prop G, no new billboards.




Patricia Vaughey




Let’s start with the billboards.
 
 It was Cal Hollow Merchants.
 
 It was an appeal at the Board of Appeals where a neighbor didn’t like the fact that his neighbor put up a billboard that actually was one foot over the height limit.
 
 It wasn’t a big egregious issue.


He proceeded to get it pulled down and proceeded to put an illegal billboard next to where this one was.


San Francisco Beautiful, San Francisco Tomorrow and myself, took the first inventory.


In order to find out the history of these billboards, you have to go into a room in the Department of Building Inspection that has stacks of piles as high as this room almost.


Most of the billboard applications prior to the new computer system recklessly got lost in the only Y2K breakdown we had in the United States.


Unless we set up a hard fine system on all these grievances, you’re just wasting your time.


And there has to be something to end the legislation.




Bob Klaussner




I was with the Civil Grand Jury last year and we spent a lot of time on enforcement.


I am not sure, how this works.
 


We want to make sure, and maybe we are getting a jump on this, but we are going to be faced very shortly with dealing with two legislative changes.


One has to do with 610, which you’ve heard abut and other has to do with the relocation of billboards.


It’s very important, that we take advantage or what we’ve learned from our experience rather than having history repeat itself, which is of major concern to us.


There are three really important issues that the initial distribution of drafts of those two new legislative changes did not put proper emphasis on and I’d like to focus on those specifically. Specific non-appealable discretionary penalties for violations.


You have to understand that the laws are only as good as the will of the people to abide by them.


And part of the way you get them to abide is to recognize that when they break it, crime does not pay, and that there are severe penalties that have to be paid.


You don’t want those penalties to be vague and squishy and a lot of wiggle room in them.




Sue Hestor




I agree with what’s been said, but I want to talk about other things.


First, question for Lois Scott, I don’t know how or where the district supervisors are on this.


Second thing is the paperwork in the Department continues to be a big problem.
 
 I am hoping that with your new Chief Financial Officer, Administrative Officer, that Ms. Scott is working to get the historical file to be the definitive repository.


Once the case is closed and the files go off to Hayward, only the documents that are in the historical file or some computer database that people can readily find are available for everything on enforcement.


I am tired of finding entire files that are lost.


I know that if the paperwork and the tracking is not resolved and is not a high priority for all of the staff in the Department, Lois’ job becomes impossible.


I would like to say, I think her reports which I read every month, or whenever they come, are not only informative, but they are also entertaining.


I think that part of the responsibility is the responsibility of the Commission.
 
 When you make conditions on a project, if it does not go into the historical file and if Lois does not know about it, it makes it a lot harder to track.




John Bardis




 
 I have observed over several decades the enforcement process in the City and, of course, with illegal units, it is a joke.


Maybe through that, that has been encouragement and incentive for violators of our code for the lack of enforcement that is happened there.


Then what happens is we also have actions that reinforce that perception.
 
 You hear of situations that have been described to you.


You have applicants who are professional architects; professional developers; or lawyers, and they have to now be tutored by the Department on how they do their job?


If an application comes in, it should come in under the door with no negotiation.


Does it stand? Does it fall?
 
 You send it out and that’s over.




 


ACTION:
          
 Meeting held.
 
 No action required


 


9.
                                                                                            
 (C. NIKITAS (415) 558-6306)


UPDATE ON THE REVIEW OF RESIDENTIAL DEMOLITIONS
 
 - 
Informational presentation
 regarding proposed changes to criteria for the review of applications to demolish dwelling units, including future initiation of Planning Code amendments to require Discretionary Review for those demolitions not presently subject to Conditional Use authorization.


Discussion only -- No action to be taken at this hearing


 


ACTION:
          
 Without hearing, continued without objection to January 26, 2006.


AYES:
             
 S. Lee, Alexander, Antonini, Hughes, Olague, W. Lee


ABSENT:
         
 Bradford Bell


 


 


H.
        
 
PUBLIC COMMENT


 


At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.
 
 With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.
 
 When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.
 
 Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.


 


The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.
 
 In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:


 


(1) Responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or


(2) Requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or


(3) Directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.
 
 (Government Code Section 54954.2(a))


 


SPEAKERS:


Architect for the project at 627 Vallejo




I believe that we have done an injustice to this family.


I believe that the process is unfair.


If indeed the neighborhood is pressuring the Planning Department not to allow any more restaurants in North Beach, then let it be a moratorium.


Let it be known to everybody going to the Planning counter asking for simple information that if you want a restaurant in North Beach, forget it, don’t spend your money


This has cost my client over $100,000.


He now has to get rid of his lease, which will cost him a huge fortune.


If he only knew.




Joan Girardo




I want to talk very briefly about the Marina DEIR that you’ll be hearing next week.


A report said the Marina Green and the Marina Seawall, which defines the northern edge of the green, are the defining historical and cultural characteristics of the Marina District and are eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places.


I received a message from Mr. Luellen and he said it had not been considered.


Through the Chair, I’d like to ask if you’ve received anything back from the Landmarks Board?


Number two – as you are reading the Draft EIR in preparation for the hearing next week, I’d like to call your attention to the fact that the project description is highly misleading.
 
 It causes a renovation.


According to the Chief Building Inspector Kornfield, the word renovation does not appear in any code.


This is an expansion plan and it is an expansion plan because it adds 3,335 linear feet of dock along 365 feet of the shoreline, which is now open water.


It is doing this for the benefit of placing 60 yachts in that area north of the Marina Green.


When this staff deleted the Marina Green from the project boundaries, they then said that there was no impact on the Green from anything that was happening in the water.


The General Plan has only one mandate about the Marina Green.


It says maintain the quality and character of the Marina Greens.


If you check the land grant from 1935 when the state transferred this land and water area to the city in trust for the citizens of California, they didn’t mention a use as a harbor, even though a small harbor has been traditionally on that site.


They listed five uses.
 
 They all pertain to land side uses and the value of that open space for the citizens.


When you expand a harbor over the shoreline, you’re basically privatizing that shoreline because you have to have your infrastructure under lock and key.


What many of the neighbors have asked for is that the Commission requires staff, when the SEIR is done, that the repair and replacement alternative of the existing harbor be considered in addition to the expansion plan.




 


Adjournment
:
 
 
5:23 p.m.


 


 


THESE MINUTES WERE PROPOSED FOR ADOPTION AT THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2006.


 


SPEAKERS:
    
 None


ACTION:
          
 Approved


AYES:
             
 Alexander, Antonini, S. Lee, W. Lee, and Olague


EXCUSED:
       
 Bradford-Bell


ABSENT:
         
 Hughes


 


 


 






Last updated: 11/17/2009 10:00:20 PM
<<Project End>>