SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers - Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
Thursday,
        February 16, 2012
1:30 PM
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:  Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya, Wu
THE MEETING WAS
        CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT MIGUEL AT 1:40 P.M.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:  John Rahaim – Director of Planning, Scott Sanchez- Zoning
        Administrator, Sophie Hayward, Sharon Young, Tom Disanto, Keith Demartini,
        Teresa Ojeda, Kevin Guy, Brittany Bendix, Christina LaMorena, Sharon Lai, Adrian
        Putra, and Linda Avery – Commission Secretary.
A.CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission
        will consider a request for continuance to a later date.  The Commission may
        choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to
        another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
None
B.        
        CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be
        routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call
        vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items
        unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which
        event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a
        separate item at this or a future hearing
1.2011.1172C(S. YOUNG: (415) 558-6346)
626 CLEMENT STREET- north side
        of Clement Street between 7th and 8th Avenues; Lot 022 in Assessor's Block 1426
        -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationpursuant to pursuant to
        Sections178(e)(2) and 303 of the Planning Code to modify the conditions of a prior
        Conditional Use authorization under Motion No. 18282 (Case No. 2010.0793C) to
        allow the expansion of a full-service restaurant use (d.b.a. Volar Roman House)within an approximately 1,800 square-foot karaoke lounge (d.b.a. Volar Karaoke)
        on the ground floor of a two-story mixed-use building within the Inner Clement
        Street Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk
        District. The expansion will involve converting the approximately 300
        square-foot vacant ground floor commercial space located at the front of the
        building (previously occupied by a retail store d.b.a. D&B Wireless) into a new
        dining area for the existing full-service restaurant use.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya, Wu
MOTION:18544
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
2.        
        Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements. 
        Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or
        inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas. 
        At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a
        Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda
        of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Antonini:
I wanted to comment on
        what I thought was an excellent piece in the "The Examiner" on Sunday by
        Supervisor Weiner.  It speaks about an issue we have discussed at great length –
        not having a very large middle- income population in San Francisco. He goes
        through a very good analysis, showing that, that group has shrunk significantly
        from 1990 through 2010, and it was not even that large in 1990. This is the core
        of most cities where you have families with children, and those who become most
        involved because they care for their children, and, you know, they build from
        generation to generation. You certainly see a big shift from the San Francisco
        of the 1950's when we had a huge middle-class and we don’t any more. Whether you
        define that as the 80th percentile to 120th, it is small no matter how you cut
        it. That whole income group is not there. What he did, that was quite good, was
        look at this. This is a chicken and egg question often. What comes first is that
        we do not have a middle-class and therefore we do not have jobs for the middle
        class, or is it that the jobs are not here and therefore, we do not have a
        middle-class. These people in that income group need these jobs. Many
        businesses, when surveyed about why they moved out of San Francisco, have said
        that the population mostly lived in other places. Typically, people who would
        service these so-called back-office operations that typically offer and are
        considered white-collar and whatever definition you want to use have housing
        that is appropriate for their needs. The price is always something that people
        look at, but what is also important is access to neighborhood schools, and that
        is something that has been discussed a lot. Also the size of the home, people
        with families are often looking for individual homes that will have enough
        bedrooms and parking for the cars that they inevitably will have. I think the
        Supervisor is right on target when he says that if we build this kind of housing
        or make it possible, families will acquire the existing housing that suits their
        needs, then we will attract this group back to San Francisco. It was a very good
        editorial. With that in mind, I took a ride down to Brisbane yesterday and saw
        an area that is doing it right. They built individual almost de-attached homes,
        with clearly single-family homes with side by side parking. Very pleasant, and
        where possible, I think that is something we have to look at in San Francisco.
        Where we will find the land is the question.  But I think there might be sites
        where this is possible.  We have to encourage production of this kind of housing
        wherever possible, so I appreciated that editorial piece that the Supervisor has
        done. He is involved with a group that is studying this. There was a hearing on
        Monday which regrettably I was not able to attend, but I think it is a subject
        we need to focus on because the core of any city is its middle income families,
        and we have to find a way to be able to address that shortage.
Commissioner Borden:
I want to be the first
        among the chorus' of voices to welcome our new commissioner. We are excited to
        serve with you and have a full Commission again. I know there will be a lot of
        fun times ahead. I know people think it is crazy to say it is fun, but we would
        not serve on this commission if we did not believe it. I was fortunate along
        with Commissioner Wu last night to attend the Green Connection Kickoff, it is an
        initiative funded through a grant partnership among various city agencies as
        well as non-profits, to connect people to green spaces. It is shocking when you
        look at this northeastern part of the City. It is an initiative to look at the
        existing green spaces, how to create green spaces, how to connect people to the
        home, their communities how we look at it, and how we connect lots of people
        there.  Also, there were maps and places where people could make suggestions. I'
        m really excited about the initiative because there will be a lot of
        unconditional workshops with walking tours and biking tours to kind of explore
        these areas. I think it is very exciting that we have an opportunity to look at
        something leading ahead in this way.  We often do not have funding to do these
        things. I want to say congratulations to the partners of that.
Commissioner Sugaya:
I cannot remember where I
        got this, but I did send a copy to staff, but it is a workshop being held in
        Emeryville on cell towers on March 8 from 7:00 to 9:00 in the evening. The topic
        seemed to be the kind of things that we seem to be facing every time we have
        cell antennas on our agenda. I know nothing about the Center for Municipal
        Solutions.  I'm not sure if it is worth anybody going, like staff or not.  But
        anyway, I will pass this along. They have some fairly enticing questions in
        here.
Commissioner Moore:
Commissioners for those
        who were not able to make it Tuesday, City Hall looked absolutely spectacular.
        Whoever organized it should get big kudos. It looked fantastic. In today's "New
        York Times," there is an article which I strongly recommend for everybody to
        read. We have been asking ourselves about the impact on foreclosures in San
        Francisco, which is an issue difficult to put your finger on. The article speaks
        about extensive foreclosures defining San Francisco.  Officials suggest how
        pervasive irregularities may be across the Nation, that it actually speaks about
        the study that was done that discovered large amounts of irregularities in this
        City and County. I suggest everybody read it. It says a lot, and there is
        actually quite a bit to be concerned about.
President Miguel:
Some of that article was
        in today's "Examiner" as well. Other than that, I have been having a few
        meetings with people regarding the Masonic Auditorium issue, and there may even
        be hope of a solution. We will see.
Commissioner Antonini:
I also had some meetings.
        I would like to, of course, welcome Commissioner Wu aboard. But Cresmont
        Neighborhood Association -- that may not be the correct term, but I did meet
        with them and there is a project coming up in that area, there were about 20
        neighbors there on Monday night. It was very interesting. We will be hearing
        about that as we look forward. Also, I talked with the Mayor's office and the
        project sponsors in regards to California Pacific and where we are on that. I'm
        trying to be proactive on that one as well as anything else when looking at our
        future calendar.
3.Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
I would also like to on behalf of the Department welcome Commissioner Wu to the
        Planning Commission.  We look forward to working with you very much. I did want
        to report quickly on the meeting last night that Commissioner Borden mentioned.
        I want to thank both Commissioner Borden and Wu for coming. It was a very
        interesting event. Because of the location on Market Street, I think, and the
        timing of the event to come immediately after work, and a lot of people who came
        were people I did not recognize from previous events, so it was a nice variety
        of people. In a nutshell, the Green Connections Study is funded by the Strategic
        Growth Counsel at the State, which is a consortium of State Departments. It is a
        two-year grant. The first is meant to look at a city wide network of green
        connections that would connect open spaces and the city's water. Not only for
        people to use, but for wildlife. The second phase of the grant will be to take
        six corridors in six underserved neighborhoods, which are generally in the
        southeast quadrant of the City, and design those to a higher level of detail so
        that we can then seek funding to actually make improvements that are not
        exclusively but primarily city streets. The idea is to pick the most logical
        ones and the most buildable ones, if you will, to turn into these kinds of green
        corridors. It is an interesting process, and we are fortunate to get this
        grant.  It is something that grew out of the Open Space Element work and was
        identified as a next phase of work for city-wide open space. I did want to
        mention briefly that regarding the cell tower issue, we have been in discussions
        with the Department of Public Health and the Department of Technology, they are
        being cooperative in helping us think through their sides of this issue, namely
        the public health issues and the capacity and coverage issues and we are
        continuing to work with them on beefing up that side of the process, if you
        will, so that they can do the same kind of analysis.  We will hopefully be
        coming back in the next couple of months and propose changes to the process.
        Finally, with regard to the successor agencies and the Redevelopment Commission,
        there is not a lot to report except that the first meeting of the oversight
        board is scheduled for the first Tuesday in March on the 6th.  One of the orders
        of business that I' m hoping we will address is the name of this entity. We are
        currently called the Oversight Board of the Successor Agency of the Former
        Redevelopment Agency, which is a real mouthful. There is not a good acronym. I'm
        hoping we will come up with some more pitchy name for the organization at that
        point as well.
4.         Review
        of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and
        Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
·Chinatown Transit Station Special Use District.The Ordinances would allow the demolition of the existing two-story mixed-use
        building without the prior review and approval of a replacement building. The
        building contains 18 residential dwelling-units located above 8 ground floor
        businesses.  This Commission approved the Ordinances on Jan 26.This week
        the legislative sponsor amended the SUD to ensure that the MOU for relocating
        tenants of this property conforms with the Central Subway’s Relocation Impact
        Study and Last Resort Housing Plan, adopted by the Board in 2010.  The item was
        then recommended for approval to the Board. On Tuesday the Full Board approved
        the Ordinance on First read.
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
·Glen Park Community Plan Ordinances
        Amending the General Plan, Planning Code & Zoning Map.The culminating approvals of a 10 year community planning effort were heard by
        the LU committee this week.  The Commission considered these Ordinances and
        recommended approval on November 10, 2012.  At that time, the Commission
        approved the documents as drafted.  This week Supervisor Wiener officially
        sponsored the legislation and recommended approval to the Committee.  Department
        staff provided an overview of the Plan and the proposed Ordinances. The
        Supervisors’ comments included a strong interest in seeing transportation
        projects implementation by the SFMTA.  Public comment was provided in support of
        the Plan by a local neighborhood group, the Glen Park Association.The full
        Board approved the Ordinances on first reading.
·Appeal of CU Authorization for
        Wireless Antennas at 601 14thAve.This WTS facility
        was proposed for the Jewish Bureau of Education.This Commission approved
        the CU on Dec 6th.  The appellant was the First Slavic Baptist Church
        of San Francisco.  The appellants had concerns about radiofrequency radiation,
        the siting on an educational facility, and the lack of independent analysis of
        “capacity & coverage”.  Staff explained that this case, the CU was approved
        prior to the Commission’s most recent revision of the Siting Guidelines, which
        now require this independent analysis as part of the submittal documents.  While
        we had asked AT&T to voluntarily pursue such analysis, they were unable to do so
        prior to the hearing.  The Department explained that this location, as a
        preference one location, is exactly where the City has requested that cell
        providers locate their antennas.  Finally, we were joined at the hearing by DPH
        staff. Together, we described the site would be safe according to science
        developed over 3 decades of study and more than 25,000 studies. Two supervisors
        (Olague and Mar) requested that the Siting process be updated.With a 9-1
        vote, the CU was upheld.  Supervisor Mar cast the dissenting vote and in the
        meeting minutes he requested that DPH provide pre-installation and
        post-installation readings of cumulative RF at the site to better inform the
        public about the levels of RF in the area.
INTRODUCTIONS:
·111163Resolution establishing a Balboa Park Station Area Plan Community Advisory
        Committee to provide input and community oversight relating to area
        transportation and other public improvements.Avalos
·120125 Ordinance:amending the San Francisco Planning Code Section 205.4 to allow mobile food
        facilities at certain types of institutions in RH, RM, RED, and RTO Districts
        subject to specified conditions.Wiener
·120133 Hearing.Hearing for city agencies and community stakeholders to make a presentation on
        the action steps identified to pursue transit-oriented development at the upper
        yard site for Balboa Park.Avalos.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
None
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The Architectural Review
        Committee, which is a Subcommittee of HPC, met yesterday to review the proposal
        for the new Mission Theater.  Overall, the project was well-received, and they
        believe the project sponsor is applying best preservation practices.  Most of
        the discussion was related to specific areas of the landmark interior that the
        project architect should study or clarified by the time the project is before
        the full committee for its full Certificate of Appropriateness. The Planning
        Commission will review the full project, which also includes a mixed use
        development adjacent to the historic theater. The Planning Commission document
        requests for Conditional Use Authorization as well as exceptions under Section
        304 of the code in the fall of this year. The second item was that the HPC
        considered the initiation of landmark designation of the Gold Dust Lounge. The
        Commission took up the matter based on a case report submitted at public comment
        during its February 1 hearing.  Yesterday, there was a great deal of public in
        support of initiation of landmark designation. Supervisor Kim's Office spoke in
        support of the legislation that would allow it to stay in business. Landmark
        designation cannot protect the use of a property and landmark designation only
        relates to the review of the physical features associated with that historic
        resource. The HPC voted to continue the item until its March 21 hearing. The
        item was continued to allow the property owner and the author of the designation
        report time to address the HPC at its 3/21/12 hearing.  Yesterday the HPC
        requested an informational hearing on the City’s PDR program in anticipation of
        the Transit District Area Plan coming before that body, and also on the sock
        story retrofit program.
E.        
        GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time,
        members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the
        public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except
        agenda items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the
        Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.  Each
        member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:     Katherine Howard
Re: Beach Chalet Soccer Fields
5.                                                         (T.
        DISANTO/K. DEMARTINI: (415) 575-9113/575-9118)
FINALIZE FISCAL YEAR 2012-2014 DEPARTMENT BUDGET AND WORK PROGRAM
Review and approval of a balanced Fiscal Year 2012-2014 department budget and
        work program for submission to the Mayor's Office (action Item).
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya, Wu
6.                                                                                               
              (T. OJEDA: (415) 558-6251)
EASTERN
        NEIGHBORHOODS PLANS MONITORING REPORTS (2006-2010)–Informational only-TheEastern Neighborhoods Plans Monitoring Reportsdescribe
        commercial and residential development activities in all four Eastern
        Neighborhoods – Central Waterfront, East SoMa, Mission, Showplace Square/Potrero
        Hill – between 2006 and 2010. These are the first five-year time series
        monitoring reports since the Plans’ adoption in 2009 and account for new
        construction, demolitions and alterations completed in the last five years as
        well as provides near term development trends in the pipeline.  TheReportsalso discuss implementation of proposed programming, including affordable
        housing construction, fees collected, historic preservation, and first source
        hiring. There is a monitoring report for each Eastern Neighborhood Area Plan and
        these are available for public review at the Planning Department or downloaded
        through the website, Reference copies will also available at the Government
        Information Center at the San Francisco Main Public Library.
Preliminary Recommendation: No Action required.
SPEAKERS:     Dan Murphy and Tim CoLen
ACTION:           Informational only – no action required
7.                         
                                                                                (J.
        RAHAIM (415) 558-6411)
California High-Speed Rail Policy Statement-The City of San Francisco has been a strong supporter of the California
        High-Speed Rail linking downtown San Francisco with downtown Los Angeles, and
        ultimately San Diego. The City has been working cooperatively with the
        California High-Speed Rail Authority and other regional governing entities to
        implement this important project, through the Transbay Joint Powers Authority
        with the construction of the Transbay Transit Center, the creation of the
        Transit Center District Plan that envisions the area around the Transbay
        Terminal as the heart of the new downtown. The city has prepared a draft Policy
        Statement in support of the California High-Speed Rail Authority, and is asking
        key city commissions, including the Planning Commission, to indicate their
        strong support of the project as voiced in the draft Policy Statement.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt draft High-Speed Rail Policy
        Statement.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved adoption of the policy statement
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya, Wu
8.2011.1327C(K. Guy: (415)
        558-6163)
401 GROVE
        STREET- southwest corner at Gough Street, Lot 036 of Assessor’s Block 0808 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationto amend the conditions of
        approval for a previously-approved project in order to allow seven additional
        parking spaces in a tandem configuration, exceeding the number of spaces
        principally permitted by the Planning Code. The associated project was approved
        on July 14, 2011, and proposes to demolish an existing surface parking lot and
        construct a new five-story mixed-use building containing approximately 63
        dwelling units, 5,000 square feet of ground floor commercial uses, and 37
        off-street parking spaces within an underground garage (Case No. 2011.0399C).
        The requested amendment would increase the total number of off-street parking
        spaces to 44.
Preliminary
        Recommendation:  Disapproval
(Continued from Regular Meeting of January 12, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     David Baker
ACTION:           Following a couple of failed motions, it is determined that
        the Commission failed to take action.  The motion approved on 7/14/11 stands.
9.2011.1249C(B.
        BENDIX:  (415) 575-9114)
2500 Bryant Street- southwest corner of the intersection of Bryant Street and 23rdStreet; Lot 001 of Assessor’s Block 4208 -Request for Conditional Use
        Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 186, 303, and 727.42 to
        convert a retail grocery store to a full-service restaurant (d.b.a. Local’s
        Corner) within an RM-1 (Low Density, Residential, Mixed) Zoning District, and a
        40-X Height and Bulk District. The proposal also includes an outdoor seating
        area on the sidewalk for the restaurant. The use is not identified as a formula
        retail use.
Preliminary
        Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of January 12, 2012)
NOTE:  On January 26, 2012, following
        public testimony the Commission continued the matter to 2/16/12 by a vote (+5
        -0), Project Sponsor to meet w/neighbors.  Fong was absent.PH remains open.
SPEAKERS:     Joel Spiewak, Vlad A., Rob Thomson, Arena Reed, Coca Corner, Leona
        Alcott, Mr. Young.
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya
RECUSED:       Wu
MOTION:18545
10a.2011.0944DV(C. LAMORENA:
        (415) 575-9085)
1921 VALLEJO STREET- south side between Laguna and Octavia Streets; Lot 021 in Assessor's Block
        0567 -Request for Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application
        2011.06.01.7223, proposing to construct a one-story horizontal addition at the
        rear of the four-story over garage, two-unit building within the RH-2
        (Residential, House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 105-D Height and Bulk
        District.
Staff Analysis:  Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:    Do not take Discretionary Review and approve
SPEAKERS:     Jim Ruben, representing Project Sponsor
ACTION:           The Commission did not take DR and approved the project as
        proposed
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya, Wu
DRA
        #:0259
10b.2011.0944DV(C. LAMORENA:
        (415) 575-9085)
1921 VALLEJO STREET- south side between Laguna and Octavia Streets; Lot 021 in Assessor's Block
        0567 -Request for Variances -to Planning Code Sections 134 and 188 to
        construct a one-story horizontal addition in the required rear yard that would
        also enlarge the existing noncomplying structure. The project site is located in
        the RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 105-D Height and
        Bulk District.
SPEAKERS:     Same as those listed for item 10a
ACTION:           The Zoning Administrator closed the public hearing and stated
        his inclination to grant the variances with the condition that the project will
        not include a roof deck
11.2011.0682DD(S. LAI: (415) 575-9087)
4218 MISSION STREET-west side between Castle Manor and Admiral Avenues; Lot 004 in
        Assessor’s Block 6803 -Mandatory Discretionary Review for a Medical Cannabis
        Dispensary, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 711.84 and 790.141 in
        association with Building Permit Application No. 2011.02.23.0782, proposing to
        develop a Medical Cannabis Dispensary (d.b.a. “The Green Cross”) on the ground
        floor of an existing building.  This project lies within the NC-2 (Small-Scale,
        Neighborhood Commercial) District, and within the 40-X Height and Bulk
        District.  A separate request for Discretionary Review has also been filed by a
        member of the public against the project.
Preliminary Recommendation:Do
        Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of January 26, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     Steve Currier, DR requestor, Ahsha Safai, Alex Murillo, Dan Heath,
        Laurie Heath, Zu Yi Li, Vivian Lois, Michelle Wai, Mindy, Joelle Kenealey, Scott
        Mullen, McJullian Aujero, Wayne, Michael R. Aldrich, Michelle Aldrich, Bob
        Huberman, David Abernathy, Off. William McCarthy, Barbar Fugate, Monika Yungela,
        Tony Bowles, Steve Ryder, David Goldman, Michael Koehn, Antonio Facchino,
ACTION:           The Commission took DR and approved with conditions
AYES:              Miguel, Antonini, Borden, Fong, Moore, Sugaya, Wu
DRA #:0260
12a.2010.0506DD(A. PUTRA: (415) 575-9079)
5258 Mission Street- west side between Niagara and Mount Vernon Avenues; Lot 003B in Assessor’s
        Block 7031 -Mandatory Discretionary Reviewfor a Medical Cannabis
        Dispensary, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 711.84 and 790.141 in
        association with Building Permit Application No. 2010.05.27.3337, to allow a
        Medical Cannabis Dispensary (d.b.a Mission Organic) to locate within the
        existing vacant ground-floor tenant space. The proposed dispensary would not
        include on-site smoking, consumption, vaporizing, or cultivation. The property
        is located within an NC-2 (Small-scale, Neighborhood Commercial) District and
        40-X Height and Bulk District.  A separate request for Discretionary Review has
        also been filed by a member of the public against the project.
Preliminary Recommendation:Do
        Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of January 26, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     Steve Currier, DR requestor, Off. William McCarthy, Ariel Clark,
        David Abernathy, Joram Altman, Phill Schwartz, Alex Murrillo, Monika Yungela,
        Joelle Kenealey, Terence Hallinan, representing PS at 5234 Mission, Brendan
        Hallinan, representing PS at 4234 Mission, Nate Bradley,
ACTION:           The Commission took DR and approved with conditions
AYES:              Miguel, Borden, Fong, Moore, Wu
NAYES:            Antonini and Sugaya
DRA #:0261
12b.2010.0468DD(A. PUTRA: (415) 575-9079)
5234 Mission Street- west side between Niagara and Mount Vernon Avenues; Lot 002C in
        Assessor’s Block 7031 -Mandatory Discretionary Reviewfor a Medical
        Cannabis Dispensary, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 711.84 and 790.141
        in association with Building Permit Application No. 2010.06.16.4643, to allow a
        new Medical Cannabis Dispensary (d.b.a TreeMed) to locate within the existing
        vacant ground-floor tenant space. The proposed dispensary would not include
        on-site smoking, consumption, vaporizing, or cultivation. The property is
        located within an NC-2 (Small-scale, Neighborhood Commercial) District and 40-X
        Height and Bulk District. A separate request for Discretionary Review has also
        been filed by a member of the public against the project.
Preliminary Recommendation:Do
        Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
(Continued from Regular Meeting of January 26, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     Same as those listed for item # 12a.
ACTION:           The Commission took DR and approved with conditions
AYES:              Miguel, Borden, Fong, Moore, Wu
NAYES:            Antonini and Sugaya
DRA #:0262
G.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of
        the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that
        are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda
        items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission
        will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception. 
        When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which
        members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the
        public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised
        during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.  Each member of the public
        may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a
        commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted
        agenda, including those items raised at public comment.  In response to public
        comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)  responding
        to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)  requesting
        staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.  (Government Code
        Section 54954.2(a))
None
Adjournment: 8:43 PM
ADOPTED: 
        March 8, 2012