SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Commission Chambers - Room 400
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
Thursday, September 6, 2012
12:00 PM
Regular Meeting
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT:   Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT FONG AT 12:05 PM.
STAFF IN ATTENDANCE:  John Rahaim – Director of Planning, Scott Sanchez – Zoning Administrator, Christina Lamorena, Aaron Starr,  Elizabeth Watty, Anmarie Rodgers, Aaron Hollister, Glenn Cabreros, Thomas Wang, Rich Sucre, and Linda Avery – Commission Secretary.
A.         CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE
The Commission will consider a request for continuance to a later date.  The Commission may choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.
1.2012.0543T(A. RODGERS (415) 558-6395)
INTENTION TO INITIATE DEPARTMENT-SPONSORED PLANNING CODE AMENDMENTS TO FIX ERRORS IN THE PLANNING CODE- Pursuant to Planning Code Section 302, the Planning Commission will consider aResolution of Intentionto initiate amendments to the Planning Code. The amendments are intended to (1) correct clerical errors in Planning Code text, (2) revise existing graphics to be consistent with the existing text, (3) amend various zoning control tables, (4) improve Planning Code readability, and (5) adopt findings, including findings under the California Environmental Quality Act, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of consistency with the General Plan and Planning Code Section 101.1.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approve a draft Resolution of Intention to initiate amendments to the Planning Code and schedule a public hearing to consider the amendments on or after October 4, 2012.
(Proposed for Continuance to September 27, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Continued as proposed
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
(j. linsangan: (415) 575-9119)
2.Public Outreach and Engagement(Memo | Resolution) -In 2011, staff (with support from Pepperdine University’s Davenport Institute for Public Engagement and Civic Leadership) conducted a Public Outreach and Engagement Effectiveness survey on the department’s outreach efforts. Based on the results, a program has been created to better serve staff, stakeholders and the community at large through a supported outreach and engagement program. This presentation provides a review of the survey’s findings, an overview of the program, and arequest to endorse the program’s principles.
Preliminary Recommendation:Endorsement of program principles.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 9, 2012)
(Proposed for Continuance to October 25, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Continued as proposed
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
ABSENT:          Borden
B.         CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed hereunder constitute a Consent Calendar, are considered to be routine by the Planning Commission, and will be acted upon by a single roll call vote of the Commission.  There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a member of the Commission, the public, or staff so requests, in which event the matter shall be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered as a separate item at this or a future hearing
3.2012.0947T(A. STARR: (415) 558-6362)
AMENDMENTS TO THE SAN FRANCISCO PLANNING CODE, SECTION 725.1to:1)reinstate controls to prohibit liquor license types 47 and 49 in the Union Street Neighborhood Commercial District; and2)requiring conditional use authorization for Limited Restaurants; and making environmental findings and findings of consistency with the General Plan.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 16, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden,Hillis,Moore
NAYES:            Sugaya
RESOLUTION:18695
4.2012.0716C(C. Lamorena: (415) 575-9085)
3121 GEARY BOULEVARD- south side between Spruce and Cook Streets; Lot 062 in Assessor’s Block 1088 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 712.54, to convert approximately 700 square feet of vacant commercial space into a massage establishment (d.b.a. Touch Thai Bodywork and Massage) on the ground floor of the three-story building within the NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate Scale) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18694
5.2012.0548C(E. Watty: (415) 558-6620)
38–8thSTREET-west side between Market and Mission Streets; Lot 005 in Assessor’s Block 3701 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization,pursuant to Planning Code Sections 156(h) and 303, to allow the establishment of a 24-space temporary surface parking lot for a period of time not to exceed two years, within the C-3-G (Downtown General Commercial) Zoning District, and 180-S Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
MOTION:18696
C.COMMISSIONERS’ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
Adoption of Commission Minutes– Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes because they did not attend the meeting.
6.         Consideration of Adoption:
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of June 28, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of August 9, 2012
·Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of August 16, 2012
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:              Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden,Hillis,Moore, Sugaya
7.         Commission Comments/Questions
·Inquiries/Announcements.  Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).
·Future Meetings/Agendas.  At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Moore:
There is an article which I read regarding the utility boxes, which will now be installed because the lawsuit failed. I would like to ask the Director to give us an update on how we will be dealing with 700 new utility cabinets - each six feet wide, four feet tall, two-feet deep - which will be installed without any of the additional utility boxes being removed. There is an expectation they will be installed in a manner that will allow vehicle doors to open on narrow sidewalks in many areas. I consider that an issue, also a big challenge to our [magistrate's] plan. I'm interested in seeing and knowing where these particular utility boxes will be installed.  I'm concerned because the Department has provided comment and push-back relative to these boxes being permitted. Also I would like to get guidance as to whether or not these boxes will basically not require further rooftop installations of micro-antennas. I would like to get a technical update, as well as urban planning and design update of where we are moving with this.
Commissioner Antonini:
A few items: last Thursday I took part in a meeting with Mickey Callahan, Head of the Department of Human Resources, along with Diane Matsuda from the Historic Preservation Commission and Ted Yamasaki and Secretary, Linda Avery. It was a very good meeting. Basically we discussed the issues surrounding classification that will be published in the secretary's job announcement for a new secretary. It was a very good meeting. It was very informative. We were told by DHR that they would get back to us by the end of this week, I think the 7th of September, with suggestions as to this issue. So I'm happy that's moving forward. Couple of other things: regretfully I have had a number of calls from a number of people that's received bogus e-mails [from me]. I've been hacked. I'm not trying to sell a big return on real estate investments to anyone. If you happen to get one of those, please ignore it. Also I'm working with my provider to see what sort of things can be done to remedy that situation. It is, you know, very disturbing. Finally, I thought we received a very excellent memo from Sarah Dennis-Phillips. The Regional Housing Needs Allotments and new ones proposed for the years 2014 and 2022 for San Francisco actually because of the AB2853, which has been with us since 1980, and deals with the subject. Now with AB375 that advocates for housing near transit and near businesses, we have allotments that are fairly high in terms of the entire Bay Area. Allotments for housing were 15%, which is higher than our percentages relative to the entire Bay Area. That is fine; it makes a lot of sense. Also, one of their policies is jurisdictions that are providing, you know, a considerable amount of affordable housing sometimes have percentages lowered for that, and areas that don't, to try to provide an equal mix throughout the region have had theirs raised. So it is -- while there is a long ways to go, it shows we are doing some things right in regards to what we are doing on housing. We still have a long ways to go. It is very enlightening to see these. I really think this was a very informative report. One of the best reports we've gotten.
Commissioner Sugaya:
I had a couple of meeting with the Japantown Neighborhood Planning process. I think it would be good if the Director could get with staff and perhaps schedule an update status report on that process. My understanding is there is a new report by City Hall with respect to ideas regarding the Social Heritage District; so it might be timely just to have an update for the Commission.
8.         Director’s Announcements
Director Rahaim:
Welcome back from a much-deserved break. I just want to update you on a couple things, First what was in your written report today: we just wanted to highlight that our property information map did win a government achievement award. I will say that map (the department) gets many, many comments on the convenience of that map and the use of that map. We get over 1,500 unique visits a day on that map, which is a very high number for a web site of that type. We are very pleased. It's become clear it's made the Department's work more efficient and allowed people to get information online that they used to come to the counter for. It is quite a great tool for us.
The promenade, as you are aware, won a design award from architects from Oakland's Walter Hood Design Studio. That is the two blocks of Powell Street between Geary and Ellis. It was essentially a large series of parklets. We are pleased the Department initiated that with the studio with a grant from AUDI Car Company.
Lastly, I wanted to reinforce what Commissioner Antonini was mentioning about the RENA allocation (Regional Housing Needs Allocation). This is a process that of course goes on every few years. I think the region is doing better at coordinating this process, which is a shorter term than the longer term AB375 process - the Sustainable Community Strategy process. That bill requires us to do a 30-year plan. The RENA allocation is I think 8.8 years. It is an odd number. The idea is regional agencies are doing better at coordinating those two things. The first time we did RENA after AB375 was passed, they were not well-coordinated. It is getting better. It is shifting, as you know, some of the preferred growth to larger cities where it transfers to the most served. It is better allocated and coordinated than in the past. There's still work to be done on that, however. It does front-load some of the growth, the 30-year growth. It does front-load some of that growth in this allocation. The number is still relatively high, over 3,000 units a year in San Francisco, which is beyond what we've been able to produce in the past, but is something that I think reflects the demand I think in the region for new housing. We are proposing a hearing on the whole package, including the SCS, so we will get you more details in the coming weeks.
9.         Review of Past Week’s Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and Historic Preservation Commission.
LAND USE COMMITTEE: None
FULL BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
§Chinese Hospital.Committee heard two Ordinances related to the demolition of the existing Chinese Hospital and a project that would rebuild the Medical Office Building, as a 110 ‘ facility with 54 acute-care beds, and a 22-skilled beds.   The Commission recommended approval of these Ordinances on July 12.This week the Board approved the Ordinances on first reading.
In both cases the appellants had withdrawn their appeals prior to the hearing and the items were closed, leaving the CEQA determinations in place.
INTRODUCTIONS:
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The HPC met yesterday and had a very short agenda, so my comments to you will also be very brief. The HPC met in less than an hour to review and approve three certificates of appropriateness for Jackson Square, Alamo and Liberty Hill. All were approved per staff recommendations. If you have questions about the details, I'm happy to go over those with you.
BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Board of Appeals’ last hearing was August 22nd but I don't believe I have been able to provide a report since that so I will give a brief update. Three items: 4201 Judah, the Beach Motel, letter of determination from 1997, continued to the call of chair for several years. The letter of determination found it was a residential hotel, not a tourist hotel. The property owner was able to provide new information to the Board of Appeals that demonstrated this was a tourist hotel so it is in existence as a legal use. They have a termination date so they need to pursue a Conditional Use Authorization to use it as a tourist hotel. That would be before this Commission in the coming months. The second was 135 El Camino Del Mar. This was a discretionary review and variance denial. This was the property next to the sinkhole on El Camino Del Mar and 24thAvenue. The commission had taken discretionary view and approved the project based upon plans that were submitted with the initial modifications and rebuild of the project in the late 90s. They had subsequently made many additions, with some that encroached on related properties and needed variances but the Commission was clear in going back to what you approved more than a decade ago. The Board of Appeals upheld this unanimously. The notice of decision order was issued yesterday, so now we will pursue enforcement with the Department of Building Inspection to ensure that they come into compliance with the Commission's decision. The final item was 2101 Washington. Actually, Lafayette Park, this was an appeal of the building permit to do alterations to the park. There was an appeal. The Board of Appeals unanimously upheld the permit. Just on Tuesday a rehearing request was filed so this will be heard again by the Board of Appeals on September 19th– it is a hearing to determine whether or not they will have a rehearing of the item. We will keep you apprised of that as well.
E.         GENERALPUBLIC COMMENT – 15 MINUTES
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.  Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
SPEAKERS:    Patricia Vaughey
Re: Non-authentic neighborhood/merchant originations.
10.2012.0791T(A. Rodgers: (415) 558-6395)
Business and Tax Regulations Code, Police Code, and Planning Code - Parking Tax Simplification for Residential Properties - [Board File No. 12-0631]-The Planning Commission will consider a proposed Ordinance introduced by Supervisor Wiener that would 1) amend the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code by adding Section 609 to establish Parking Tax Simplification for Residential Properties to relieve residential property owners and managers renting five or fewer parking spaces in Parking Stations physically attached to or otherwise associated with the building from the requirement to: (a) obtain a certificate of authority, (b) make monthly tax prepayments, (c) obtain a parking tax bond, and (d) providing amnesty from parking taxes, interest, penalties and fees owed for tax periods more than 24 months prior to the effective date of the Ordinance; 2) amend the Business and Tax Regulations Code Section 2219.7 to exempt property owners and managers registered pursuant to Section 609 from the requirement to pay the Revenue Control Equipment compliance fee; 3) amend the Planning Code Section 204.5 to allow as an accessory use up to five dwelling unit parking spaces to be leased to persons living off-site anywhere in the City;  and 4) amend the Police Code Section 1215 to eliminate the requirement to hold a commercial parking permit for property owners and managers registered pursuant to Section 609 of the Business and Tax Regulations Code.  The proposed Ordinance is before the Commission so that it may review the Planning Code amendment and recommend adoption, rejection, or adoption with modifications to the Board of Supervisors, and adopt findings, including environmental findings and findings of consistency with the General Plan and the Priority Policies of Planning Code Section 101.1 and Section 302 findings.   Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden,Hillis,Sugaya
NAYES:Moore
RESOLUTION:18697
11.2011.0931EC(A. Hollister: (415) 575-9078)
4-20 OCTAVIA BOULEVARD (A.K.A. 8 OCTAVIA BOULEVARD & PARCEL “V”)- lot bounded by Octavia Boulevard, Haight Street, and Market Street, Lot 011 of Assessor’s Block 0855 -Request for Conditional Use Authorizationto1)Allow development on a lot exceeding 10,000 square feet, and2)Allow off-street parking access from Octavia Boulevard. The proposal is to construct a new five- to nine-story development on a vacant lot containing up to 49 dwelling units, approximately 2,000 square feet of ground floor commercial uses, 24 off-street residential parking spaces and one off-street commercial parking space within an underground garage.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 9, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     Tim Colen, Ali Shabahargi, Robin Levitt, Michael Adler, Manuel Flores, Jim Warshell, Alan Mark, Mark McDonald
ACTION:           Approved with additional conditions: 1) continued to work on height and pedestrian areas; 2) continued to work on design of Market Street façade.
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Moore, Sugaya
RECUSED:Hillis
MOTION:18698
12.2012.0641C(E. WATTY: (415) 558-6620)
933-949 STOCKTON STREET- southwest corner of Stockton and Washington Streets; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 0211 -Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 812.82, 890.80, 812.14, 145.3, and 303, to allow construction of the Chinatown Transit Subway Station entrance structure (a “Public Use”) with street frontages greater than 50 feet within the Chinatown Residential Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District, Chinatown Transit Station Special Use District, and 65-85-N Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of August 9, 2012)
SPEAKERS:     Amy Chung, Cynthia Joe, Phil Chin, Allan Lu, Leung Wing Ho, Wayne Hu
ACTION:           Approved w/additional conditions that this project will continue before the CPC for review/approval
AYES:             Fong, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore
RECUSED:Sugaya and Wu
MOTION:18699
13a.2012.0110CEV(M. SMITH: (415) 558-6322)
2175 MARKET STREET-southeast corner of Market and 15thStreets; Lot 011 in Assessor’s Block 3543- Request for Conditional Use Authorization,  pursuant  to  various Planning  Code  Sections:  Sec. 207.6,  for an exception  to  the  dwelling mix requirement;  Sec. 733.11, to develop a lot exceeding 9,999 square feet; Sec. 733.44,  to establish a Restaurant use; and Sec. 303, for  a  project  proposing  to  demolish  an  existing gas station and construct a new 65-foot-tall, six-story, approximately 79,945-square-foot(104,413 -square-feet including parking), mixed-use building  containing  88 dwelling units and approximately 7,300 square feet of retail space  at  the  ground floor, a portion of which would be occupied by a yet to be determined restaurant use as defined in Section 790.91 of the Code.  The proposed building would contain 44 off-street parking spaces within an underground parking garage and provide approximately 7,100 square feet of common usable open space.  The project site is located within the Upper Market Street NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) District and a 65-X/40-X Height and Bulk District and within the Market and Octavia Area Plan.  CEQA (California Environmental Quality Act) Findings will also be adopted as part of the project approvals.
Preliminary Recommendation:Approval with Conditions
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Without hearing, continued to 9/20/12
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
13b.2012.0110CEV(M. Smith: (415) 558-6322)
2175 MARKET STREET-southeast corner of Market and 15thStreets; Lot 011 in Assessor’s Block 3543- Request for Variancesfrom various Planning Code Sections: Sec. 134, for rear yard; Sec. 145.1, for a ground floor  non-residential  ceiling  height  that  is  less than 14-feet in height; Sec. 135, for  open  space  exposure;  and Sec. 140, for dwelling unit exposure for a project  proposing  to  demolish  an  existing  gas station and construct a new 65-foot-tall, six-story, approximately 79,945-square-foot(104,413 -square-feet including parking), mixed-use building  containing  88 dwelling units and approximately 7,300 square feet of retail space  at  the  ground floor, a portion of which would be occupied by a yet to be determined restaurant use as defined in Section 790.91 of the Code.  The proposed building would contain 44 off-street parking spaces within an underground parking garage and provide approximately 7,100 square feet of common usable open space.  The project site is located within the Upper Market Street NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) District and a 65-X/40-X Height and Bulk District and within the Market and Octavia Area Plan.
SPEAKERS:     None
ACTION:           Without hearing, the Zoning Administrator continued item to 9/20/12
14.2012.0847D(G. CABREROS: (415) 558-6159)
28-30 TOLEDO WAY- north side between Pierce Street and Mallorca Way, Lot 012 in Assessor's Block 0466A -Request for Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2011.07.26.1070 proposing to enlarge the partial fourth floor of the existing four-story, two-unit building within the RH-2 (Residential House, Two-Family) Zoning District and the 40-X Height and Bulk District. New rear balconies and front facade alterations are also proposed including window replacements and construction of a tiled parapet.
Abbreviated Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do not take Discretionary Review and approve
SPEAKERS:     Patricia Vaughey, Dameli Zanty, Project Sponsor
ACTION:           Following hearing, continued to 10/4/12. Public hearing remains open
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
15.2011.0761DD(T. WANG: (415) 558-6335)
611 BUENA VISTA WEST-on the west side of Buena Vista West Avenue between Frederick and Java streets;Lot 004 in Assessor’s Block 2603 –Requests for Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2011.05.04.5332, proposing to construct a third-story vertical addition to an existing two-story over basement, single-family dwelling within an RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve
SPEAKERS:     Tracy Boxer Zill, Martin Roschelsen, Stephanie Kiriakopolus, Cass Smith, Timothy L. Stewart, John Giusti, Bill Cheen, Judy Soong, Kristy Leffers, Susan Rugtiv Stewart, Jon Shields, Malcolm Hillan, Matt Leffers, Rafael Mandelman,
ACTION:           Took DR and approved with a 3 foot setback (next to turret)
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Borden, Moore, Sugaya
NAYES:            Antonini and Hillis
DRA #:0290
16.2012.0723D(R. SUCRE: (415) 575-9108)
1050 VALENCIA STREET-southwest corner of Hill and Valencia Streets, Lot 008 in Assessor's Block 3617 -Request for Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application Nos. 2010.12.27.7436 (Demolition) and 2010.12.27.7437 (New Construction) proposing to demolish an existing one-story building and construct a new, 55-ft tall, five-story-over-basement, mixed use building containing twelve dwelling units and ground floor commercial within the Valencia St NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District and the 55-X Height and Bulk District.
Full Discretionary Review
Preliminary Recommendation:  Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve
SPEAKERS:     Diana Rathbone, Risa Teitelbaum,Peter Heinercke, Leonard Ficher, Audrey Bower, Stephanie WAeisman, Linda Wohlrabe, Josh Karnblth, Charlie Varon, Susan Warren, Alan orrocks, Nancy Charraga, Fran Cavanaugh, Elizabeth Zitrin, Frederic West, John Barbey, Sue Lebeck, John Levin, Marga Gomez, Elizabeth Shepard, Tim Colen, Avi Ehrlich, Barbar Russell
ACTION:           Took DR and approved with modifications that include addressing drainage, ventilation, light, sound attenuation, project liaison
AYES:             Fong, Wu, Antonini, Borden, Hillis, Moore, Sugaya
DRA #:0291
H.PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.  When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.  Each member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, including those items raised at public comment.  In response to public comment, the commission is limited to:
(1)  responding to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2)  requesting staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3)directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.  (Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
None
Adjournment:7:59 PM
Adopted:          October 18, 2012