7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Director Rahaim: 
Commissioner, I guess just on behalf of the department, thank you for all your great work. 
We will miss your energy and your enthusiasm and just one item to point out is all your 
work on childcare and moving that legislation through and it really made a difference on 
our ability to get support for that and move that legislation through. We really appreciate 
that but I will certainly miss your enthusiasm and hard work on this Commission. So, thank 
you.  
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
Commissioner Moore recently told me I wasn't allowed to fraternize with staff; in which I 
said, you waited three and a half years to tell me that?  
 
Director Rahaim: 
So I guess this is the year and maybe because it's the year end, but it is also the year 
milestones. The last several weeks have been challenging here in City Hall with the mayor's 
passing and it causes us all to reflect perhaps think about change and how we are reacting 
to change. I am about 10 days short of my 10th anniversary as Planning Director and so of 
course it makes me think and I guess the one thing I will just say is to first of all thank you 
all for 10 years of support. I mean that is not -- that is pretty extraordinary and there are 
not many of my colleagues who have been in their position for 10 years. I really do 
appreciate your support over these years and it has been a great honor to be here and I 
look forward to many more to come. There will be a lot of uncertainty over the next few 
months. We all know that it’s going to be a challenging few months for all of us in city 
government, given the uncertainties and the deadlines coming up, but I think, you know, I 
think I am encouraged by what I am hearing out of Room 200 in terms of staying the 
course and keep it on with our work and support of the work we’ve been doing. I ask for 
your support in the coming months as well and really thank you all for the last 10 years.  
 
President Hillis: 
Thank you, director. Who was the last Planning Commissioner -- Planning Director that 
served 10 years?  
 
Director Rahaim: 
Dean Macris. He was here for one length of time for 12 years, but his most recent when he 
came back in acting capacity was about three years in addition to that.  
 
President Hillis: 
Well, thank you for everything. We appreciate your work.  
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission