7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, I think we are looking at late January for a hearing on the state and 
legislation and CASA. As you know, the CASA proposal is a proposal by committee that was 
formed via MTC. Much of what they are proposing does require either state or local 
legislation and so there's a long process before it could ever get implemented. But 
nonetheless, it's worth having a discussion about, since it's been under way I think for 
almost two years now. With respect to the San Jose site, that’s the site at the Diridon 
station in San Jose. It was – I think - I believe the agreement was to sell it to Google. They 
don't have a design yet. It does include both housing and office. One of the interesting 
things that's -- the issue that exists in San Jose, that I think perhaps different than any 
other city that I know of, is that San Jose is the only large city in the country that has a 
larger nighttime population than daytime population. In other words, more people leave 
the city during the day than come during the day. San Francisco's population grows by 
hundreds of thousands of people every day. San Jose is actually the opposite, which is 
highly unusual. And so in their case, they, actually, their job-housing balance is the 
opposite of ours. They have a disconnect on the other end of the spectrum. So it's one of 
the reasons why Mayor Liccardo is looking at adding to the job base there, because they 
are trying to create a better balance in that direction. But in any case, I think there's a 
strong belief in the CASA process that large, job-producing developments have to kind of 
pay their share. And I think there's a lot of discussion about how that should happen, when 
that should happen and what form does that take and so on. So the ABAG Board that I sit 
on will be meeting next month to talk about the CASA process as well and to weigh in as 
well. So I’ll report back to you at that point.   
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
181144 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2 Henry Adams Street (the Dunham, 
Carrigan & Hayden Building). Sponsor: Cohen. Staff: Ferguson.  
 
The first item on the land use agenda was the proposed landmark designation of 2 
Henry Adams Street. This item was unanimously recommended by the HPC on 
November 7. 2 Henry Adams is significant for its association with post-1906 
reconstruction warehouse development in San Francisco, and for its association with 

San Francisco Planning Commission