4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
The only announcement was to let the Commissioners know that we in fact are doing -- 
looking at the, I think it’s the third version of SB-825. I think we're having a hearing on the 
26th I believe in about two weeks. You will receive memo in next week's packet. Just to ask 
if there's anything in particular that you are interested with that legislation let us know so 
that can make sure we can include it in time for the packet for next week. Thanks and 
that’s all I have today.  
 
Commissioner Richards:  
I think I mentioned this in the Building Inspection Joint hearing: the interplay of the 
different laws and their ability to allow local control on demolitions was a concern of mine. 
So housing accountability, when you have maybe two laws apply to the same project.  
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
LAND USE COMMITTEE: 
Aaron Starr:  
This report does cover two weeks since you were on break last week. Last week’s Land Use 
Committee didn't have any planning related items. However this week the Committee 
considered a resolution on San Francisco’s Biodiversity Policy sponsored by Supervisors 
Fewer and Kim. The resolution focused on efforts to build on 35 years of helpful, but 
disconnected policy work to support by diversity and elevate the issues to a citywide 
priority. The resolution also adopts a citywide Biodiversity Vision and names fourteen city 
agencies that are to be part of that vision. San Francisco Planning staffs have been fully 
engaged in these efforts and reviewed the resolution language along the way. At the Land 
Use hearing ten people spoke during public comment. Speakers included representative 
from the Sierra Club, The Presidio Trust, and Literacy for Environmental Justice. Managers 
from the PUC, Rec Park, the Port, and the Public Library also spoke in support of both the 
resolution and the interagency collaboration co-led by the San Francisco Environment and 
Planning. The Committee Members added one amendment requested from Supervisor 
Safai. It is intended to clarify expectations of priorities on city-owned land. Supervisor Kim 
and Safai also raised questions from their constituents such as whether or not the 
biodiversity resolution would increase conflicts with public access, removal of non-native 
trees and pesticide herbicide use. Director Rafael and the San Francisco Environment 
Integrated Pest Management lead responded to concerns and clarified that the resolutions 
does not impact natural areas plan and or the integrated pest management ordinance. In 
the end the Committee unanimously passed the resolution and then sent it to the Full 
Board.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission