10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
 
Director John Rahaim: 
 
There’s just two points that I wanted to bring up. One was some process improvements 
that we're doing as a result of the Executive Director from last year and some internal 
procedures that we're going to change. I just figure for your benefit and the community, 
wanted to give you a sense of what that is. We are proposing what we're calling a 
consolidated development application process. Right now, the Department, unusual for 
most of California, accepts environmental applications separate from an entitlement 
application. What that does is create a situation where for large projects they come in with 
the E environmental applications sooner than the entitlement applications because the 
entitlement requires more detail. That creates a sort of an unfortunate feedback loop 
because the project actually changes, the sequence changes then we’re on this delay cycle, 
so we are proposing to change that and require both a single application for both. What it 
does mean for project sponsors is that there will be more detail required up front. We think 
that, in and of it-self helps the process because from the beginning we’ll have more 
knowledge of the project. We're also changing the PPA process slightly. If you recall, when 
the PPA was first instituted several years ago, we issued a letter in 60 days and a couple of 
years ago we extended that to a 90-day period in light of our backlog, but also allowed 
project sponsors to submit their E application at the same time. We are now going back to 
the original version and saying, we will issue the letter in response to a PPA in 60 days and 
then when that is complete we will then accept your joint, consolidated application right 
after that. In other words, it’s going back to the original concept of the PPA with the 60-
day turn-around on our letter, but then there’s a consolidated application that both the 
entitlement and the environmental application have to be submitted at the same time. We 
think that will help our processes in terms of that unfortunate feedback problem that 
happens between environmental review and the zoning review.  
 
 
The second thing I wanted to mention is related to – and you will have a memo from 
Teresa Ojeda in your packet this afternoon related to the pipeline issue that keeps coming 

San Francisco Planning Commission