10. Director’s Announcements
None
11. Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation Commission
LAND USE COMMITTEE:
•171134 General Plan Amendment - 1629 Market Street.Sponsor: Commission. Staff: Sucre•170938 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 1629 Market Street Special Use District.Sponsors: Mayor; Kim and Sheehy. Staff: Sucre
First on the Land Use Committee agenda this week were the General Plan, Planning Code and Zoning Map Amendments for the project at 1629 Market Street Project. This Commission voted to approve those items on October 19th of this year. At the Land Use hearing a few people spoke in support of the project during public comment. The Land Use Committee did not have any comments on the project, but did applaud the Project Sponsor on their proposal. The Committee forwarded the project to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.
•170959 Hearing - Housing Costs and Housing Cost Information Tracking by City Departments.Sponsor: Fewer. Staff: Ojeda, Rodgers, Peterson.•170748 Hearing - Planning Department's Housing Balance Report No. 5.Sponsor: Kim. Staff: Ojeda, Rodgers, Peterson.•170992 Bi-Annual Housing Balance Report - May 2017.Sponsor: Kim. Staff: Ojeda, Rodgers, Peterson.
Last on the land use agenda was the combined Bi-Annual Housing Balance Report sponsored by Supervisor Kim and a hearing sponsored by Supervisor Fewer on Housing Costs and Housing Cost Information Tracking. AnMarie Rodgers introduced the items as the new director of citywide policy. She emphasized that good data is critical to good policy making. Teresa Ojeda presented the major points on the Housing Balance Report, focusing particularly on the various elements that make up the housing balance ratio and how it varies by Supervisor district. Pedro Peterson presented information on housing cost trends over time and across the city. He also described the overall economic trends and their impact on housing costs.
Public comment was mostly provided by struggling tenants and tenant advocates on the need for stronger protections and preservation of housing affordability. Supervisors Peskin, Kim, and Fewer said that they want us to add more information to the Housing Balance Report, asking for variations to the existing equation. Supervisor Fewer had asked that the City consider monitoring rental rates as currently done by the City of Berkeley. At the end of the hearing, the Committed unanimously accept the Housing Balance Report and filed the hearing.
FULL BOARD:
•170941 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Transit Center Special Sign District.Sponsor: Kim. Staff: D. Sanchez. PASSED Second Read•170922 Planning Code - Landmark Designation of 2731-2735 Folsom Street (aka Gaughran House).Sponsors: Peskin; Ronen. Staff: Ferguson. Passed First Read•171147 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental Review - SFMTA Hairball Intersection Improvement Project.Staff: Dwyer
The Board also heard an environmental appeal on the Hairball intersection improvement project. The Hairball is the area where Cesar Chavez Street, Bayshore Boulevard, and Potrero Avenue change from city streets to a complex arrangement of bridges and ramps linking with Highway 101.
SFMTA is working on a small project on Jerrold Avenue and Bayshore Boulevard. The project consists of minor restriping to install bicycle lanes, the removal of 10 parking spaces and two loading zones, and the implementation of a parking restriction along Barnveld Avenue.
The Department issued a Class 1 [Existing Facilities] categorical exemption, which was appealed by Mary Miles. Ms. Miles claimed that the department incorrectly issued a Class 1 categorical exemption.
In an uncommon twist, the appellant provided notice the day before the hearing that she would not be attending the hearing, and did not request a continuance of the hearing. In response, staff gave a shortened presentation on the appeal and the Department’s response. Planning Department staff was also supported SFMTA staff. In what was a quick and successful hearing, the exemption determination was upheld on a unanimous vote.
•171041 Planning Code - Cannabis Regulation.Sponsor: Mayor, Sheehy. Staff: Starr
And finally the Board heard the Planning Code and various other Code Amendments for Cannabis Regulations. As you may remember from my last report, the Board continued the item for two weeks to continue to evaluate the proposal and possible amendments.
There were probably four major sticking points with the land use amendments; the first was the distance around sensitive uses. As I’m sure you remember the original ordinance proposed a 600 foot buffer around schools, and this commission voted to increase that to 1000 feet. The ordinance before the Board at the time maintained the 600’ provision, but Supervisor Tang, in response to her constituent’s concerns, proposed an amendment that would increase that to 1000’. This amendment failed on a 6-5 vote. In the end the Board kept the 600’ distance.
The second sticking point was the definition of sensitive uses and in particular whether or not it should include childcare facilities. The original ordinance did not include childcare facilities. Supervisor Tang made a motion to include child care facilities, also in response to concerns from her constituents, but again this amendment failed on a 6-5 vote and the Board end up not including Childcare facilities as a sensitive use. This also means that Recreational Buildings that primarily serve those 18 years or younger is also no longer considered a sensitive use.
The third sticking point was the proposed anti-clustering provision. The original ordinance proposed a 300 foot anti-clustering provision and this commission voted to include what was referred to as the Orbit Option in its place. While there seemed to be a support for the orbit option at the Board, I think the inability to map the orbit option, and that it was untested put it out of favor. In the end the Board voted to increase the anti-clustering provision to 600 feet.
The final sticking point was whether or not certain districts in the city could impose limits on the number of cannabis retailers and mcd, also known as carve-outs. Supervisor Farrell, Tang, Yee, Peskin and Safai all at one point had proposed carve-outs in their district. Supervisor Farrell and Peskin had abandoned those carve-outs prior to Tuesday’s meeting, and did not propose amendments to add them to the final ordinance. Supervisors Tang and Yee proposed to add their carve-outs to the final ordinance, but those amendments failed. Supervisor Ronen then made a motion to remove Supervisor Safai’s carve-out, which places a limit of three MCDs or Cannabis Retailers in the Excelsior Outer Mission NCD. If you recall this carve was added by a separate ordinance and at one point applied to all of District 11. This motion passed on 6-5 vote, which effectively removed all carve-puts from the ordinance.
There were two other amendments of note, both made by Supervisor Peskin. The first was an amendment to require 312 notifications for all Cannabis Retailers, regardless of their zoning district. This motion passed unanimously. This means that all Cannabis Retailers, even if they are located Downtown will be required to do 312 notifications.
The last and perhaps most pertinent amendment to those seeking immediate herbal relief was a provision added to the Planning Code that would allow existing MCD to sell adult use cannabis on a temporary basis starting the day the ordinance becomes effective, which looks like it will be