8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Director John Rahaim: 
I wanted to make a few comments related to the condo conversion rules in light of the 
hearing last week and kind of talk to you a little bit about what we do and don't do with 
respect to condo conversion analysis, if you will. In general, when we do the analysis with 
Public Works and know of an eviction or buy-out, that can, in itself, cause the project not to 
move forward before it even gets to you; as a reminder, you review only a five or six-unit 
condominium conversions. So, and it depends on the type of tenant evicted when the 
tenant was evicted and so on and so forth. We just, as a reminder, we are, what's called the 
referral agency, DPW is the lead. So DPW accepts the application and we receive that 
referral from the Department of Public Works when they determine that they -- that the 
application is -- the project is eligible for conversion. Now under current procedures, the 
referral does not include the eviction history per se but it does include an affidavit from the 
owner stating that there have been no evictions. This is similar to any application where 
the applicant signs that everything is correct and true and all that good stuff. So, as you 
know, per the subdivision code, the commission “shall deny the application if there is 
elderly or permanent disabled tenants displaced or discriminated against in leasing the 
units or evictions have occurred for the purpose of preparing the building for a 
conversion.” The challenge is that the ordinance doesn't define what an eviction is; it's 
pretty clear that it goes beyond what the Rent Board sees, but as you learned last week, 
the definition of when an eviction actually occurs can be a little bit of an undefined. So, we 
are working with Public Works to try to see if what we can do to correct this, to prevent the 
kind of situation we had last week from even getting to you to begin with and what we're 
going to do is, first of all, work with Public Works to see if we can dig -- dig deeper into the 
actual eviction history rather than only relying on the affidavit. Number two, we will 
include a copy of the actual application affidavit in your report so that you can see the 
actual information that's submitted because that was the crux of the issue last week where 
there was a concern that the -- that there was a discrepancy in the application from what 
had actually happened. So, I'll continue to report to this -- on this issue as we move 
forward. The good news is that this hasn't come up very often with the condo conversion 
process, but I don't think any of us want a repeat of what happened last week. So, we'll do 
our best to prevent that from happening. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I guess at some point, Director Rahaim, if you can give us the background on why we 
approve those and not 3 and 4 unit buildings, why just 5 and 6; is it just some type of 
holdover from some prior law. Really, I'm not understanding why it's just that very specific 
five and six-unit building. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission