9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
On that last item, I am happy to have the staff -- maybe we will start with a memo just 
describing how we're doing it and then we could follow up with further discussions with 
you after that.  
 
Secondly, I just wanted to call your attention to the memo that is in your packet today 
from Carly Grob, on the Director's Bulletin related to the State Density Bonus. We are -- you 
know, we only in the last couple of years have started to receive projects proposing to use 
the state density bonus. And it's taken a little while to figure out how to actually 
implement the program and now we have a number of projects -- maybe half a dozen or 
to 10 that are actually proposing in some form using the state density bonus. So, we 
wanted to make sure we were consistent in how we use that program. Of particular 
interest, I think, is how we calculate the base density. You know, how you calculate the 
density that is allowed under current zoning without using the bonus. So, what this memo 
does, which is called Director’s Bulletin No. 6, is actually trying to do is be very clear about 
how to do that, so that all the projects do it the same way, consistent with state law. And 
we can move forward in a more streamlined way in how we implement these projects. So, 
just wanted to call that to your attention as to how we kind of implement that program at 
this point.  
 
Lastly, I just wanted to mention that we do have a couple of hearings upcoming on 
Housing Policy and Housing Programs. I think what we are likely to do is break that up into 
a couple of sessions in January, perhaps February when we talk about the current pipeline 
at the request of President Hillis. We’re going to talk about the current pipeline as it relates 
to our budget as well as kind of the larger policy questions around the state. Especially 
around state housing bills and other policy issues that are coming up. And I think we're 

San Francisco Planning Commission