5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
 
LAND USE COMMITTEE:  
• 180423 Planning Code - Review for Downtown and Affordable Housing Projects; 
Notification Requirements; Review of Alterations to Historical Landmarks and in 
Conservation Districts. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: J Bintliff.  
 
On Monday, the Land Use Committee considered the Mayor’s Process Improvements 
Ordinance. Commissioners, you heard this item last week at your June 7 hearing. At that 
hearing you voted to recommend the ordinance with modifications.  
 
The Committee adopted several of the Commission’s recommendations, including an 
amendment to require that all notification materials be provided according to adopted 
Planning Commission policy; however, the Committee voted to maintain the proposed 20-
day standard notification period, and did not include amendments regarding design 
review, performance standards, prevailing wage, and building code standards for 100% 
affordable housing projects.  
 
The Committee also maintained the exemption of limited rear yard additions, also known 
as pop-outs, from neighborhood notification requirements; however, the Committee 
amended the Ordinance to require notification for these pop-outs if the existing structure 
has been modified in the previous 3 years. The committee also urged the Planning 
Commission to adopt a policy to require Pre-Application meetings for these rear yard 
additions.  
 
In the end, Committee voted without objection to refer the amended ordinance to the full 
Board at the June 19 regular meeting. 
 
In addition, Supervisor Kim moved to duplicate the file in order to introduce further 
amendments to Articles 10 and 11. These amendments would allow administrative 
approval of certain minor scopes of work on historic structures. Specifically, the 
administrative approval of “signs, murals, or exterior paint installed to celebrate an event 
or anniversary or an event of national or international significance relevant to the historic 
context of the landmark or historic district.” 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission