10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, I'm doing everything I can to keep the Planning Department from 
becoming a zombie agency. I will do my best there. I just have one item I want to report 
on, regarding a story in SocketSite about a project at 4547 20th Street. This article was 
posted on Monday regarding the demolition of a single-family home at that site. The 
demolition occurred in October of last year. In the article, it was alleged that the property 
owner began to illegally demolish the building, exceeding the scope of work, for a permit 
they obtained for dry rot repair, resulting in the issuance of an emergency order, because 
the unpermitted work contributed to the site becoming an active slide. In fact, this is not 
correct. While the property owner did obtain a permit for dry rot repair, they actually did 
contact DBI, with concerns regarding the retaining wall in the property. In June of last year, 
DBI performed multiple site visits and issued an emergency order for demolition of the 
building due to an imminent site hazard and potential landslide risk on this site. In August, 
the Planning Department approved the demo work - when there's an emergency order, it 
starts at DBI and it comes to us, so both departments have to approve it.  As a condition of 
approval, the Department requested a copy of the photos study, the Historic American 
Buildings Survey photo study, which to document the building, because it was listed as a 
potential historic resource. Upon completion of the photo study, the building was 
demolished in October under the direction of DBI. It's our understanding, that the 
SocketSite article was written without any consultation to either department and DBI has 
reached out to SocketSite to correct the error in their report. That concludes my 
presentation. Thank you.   
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Aaron Starr: 
 
LAND USE COMMITTEE:  

San Francisco Planning Commission