10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
 
None  
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 LAND USE COMMITTEE:  
• 180078 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Wall at the Intersection of Diamond 
Heights Boulevard and Clipper Street (aka Diamond Heights Safety Wall). Sponsor: 
Sheehy. Staff: Smith.  
 
First on the land use agenda was the landmark designation of the Diamond Heights 
Safety Wall. The wall is a public sculpture located on the south side of Diamond 
Heights Boulevard at Clipper Street. It is significant for its association with the 
Diamond Heights Redevelopment Project, a planning effort led by the San Francisco 
Redevelopment Agency from 1961 to 1978.  
 
The sculpture was nominated for Landmark Designation through a community-
sponsored Landmark Application submitted by Bob Pullum to the Department on May 
1, 2017. On November 1, 2017, the Historic Preservation Commission initiated 
landmark designation and on December 20, 2017, voted unanimously to recommend 
approval of designation to the Board of Supervisors.  
 
At the land use hearing, Bob Pullum, and members of the Diamond Heights 
Community Association testified in support of the designation. One member of the 
public who indicated he was a member of the Libertarian party testified against the 
designation.  
 
The Supervisors had questions about ownership and maintenance responsibility of the 
sculpture since it has not been maintained over the decades. Staff informed the 
committee members that the sculpture is located on a City-owned easement but that 
correspondence to the Real Estate Department to confirm this was left unanswered. 
The DPW’s representative who was in attendance stated that the Safety Wall is not 
currently on their maintenance plan and that prior to Planning’s outreach, DPW was 
unaware of the Safety Wall.  
 
The committee voted to move the item forward to the full BOS without a 
recommendation, citing the lack of clarity around who is responsible for maintenance, 
and requested that that information be provided to them prior to the Board meeting 
next Tuesday.  
 
Since then, The Planning Department received acknowledgement from the Real Estate 
Department that the City owns the property and that DPW is the party responsible for 
its maintenance. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission