9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon Commissioners.  I have no new announcements. I just will say that there 
has been -- the UCSF – just a reminder, they are a state institution so technically they don't 
come to the commission for approval. But they are working on their master plan and I fully 
expect and there has been a citizen’s advisory group in the neighborhood that is meeting 
regularly with UCSF. So, we will certainly be in touch with them to come on a voluntarily 
basis to the commission, which they have done in the past many times. And we can do 
that in this case. I think the, to be clear, the master plan isn't really determined yet. They 
are working on it. They know that they have to do a lot of work to the existing buildings, 
including replacing the existing hospital. So, it is a big deal. So, we will definitely get them 
to come here before the master plan is finalize. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
  
Aaron Starr: 
 
 
Land Use Committee  
• 
190839 Planning Code - Fulton Street Grocery Store Special Use District. Sponsor: 
Brown. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
First on the land use agenda was Supervisor Brown’s ordinance that would permit a 
Formula Retail Grocery Store at 555 Fulton Street with Conditional Use Authorization. The 
Planning Commission heard this item last week on October 17th and recommended 
approval with modifications. Those modifications included:  
 
1. Removing the periodic reporting requirement;  
 
2. Removing the sunset clause;  
 
3. Clerical amendments (lot and Board File No. references)  
 
There was no public comment at land use. During the hearing, Chair Peskin expressed 
concern about language in the Ordinance regarding non-Formula Retail grocery stores 
being less affordable. He also questioned the reason the sunset provision was being 
removed from the ordinance, adding it was another tool the city could use to ensure 
compliance. Staff clarified that if the operator is not in compliance, the Planning 
Commission can revoke their CU authorization. Further, any future tenants would have to 
comply with original conditions of approval, regardless of the inclusion of a sunset clause. 
Staff also explained that the recommendation to remove the sunset provision was to allow 
future tenants should Trader Joes leave, without the City having to pass another 
ordinance.  
 
In the end, the Committee moved to approve the Ordinance with all the recommendations 
except the recommendation to remove the sunset clause. Additionally, the language 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 24, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 19 
 
regarding how non-Formula Retail grocery stores are not as affordable was removed. I 
would note, however that the affordability claim was in the Controller’s study on Formula 
Retail done in 2014.  
 
• 
190844 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 3333 California Street Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: Foster. Item 4  
• 
190845 Development Agreement - Laurel Heights Partners, LLC - 3333 California Street 
Project - California Street at Presidio Avenue. Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: Foster. Item 5  
 
Next, the land use committee considered the legislative changes and Development 
Agreement for the project at 3333 California Street. This is a mixed-use project with 744 
dwelling units 25% of which would be affordable; about 35k sq. ft. of retail; and a 15k sq. 
ft. child care. The Planning Commission heard the item on September 5 and voted to 
certify the EIR and approve the project’s various entitlements and legislative changes.  
 
During the land use hearing, the public expressed concern about the number of trees 
being removed at the Project Site; the type of retail uses permitted (specifically flexible 
retail); and the permitted hours of operation. Opponents of proposed project supported 
the “community alternative” endorsed by the Laurel Heights Improvement Association.  
 
Supervisor Peskin asked if parking for the 100% affordable building could be reduced to .5 
ratio (from 1:1), which the project Sponsor agreed to do. Supervisor Stefani made minor 
modifications to planning code text amendments, namely a reduction in a few permitted 
uses within the NC-S controls, plus a reduction of principally permitted hours or operation, 
reducing that from 2 a.m. to 12 a.m.  
In the end the committee forwarded the items to full BoS without recommendation due to 
pending appeals.  
 
• 
190548 Planning Code - Jobs Housing Linkage Fee and Inclusionary Housing. 
Sponsors: Haney; Fewer, Ronen, Mar, Peskin, Walton and Yee. Staff: D. Sanchez. Item 6  
• 
190989 Hearing - Budget and Legislative Analyst Report - Jobs-Housing Fit. Sponsor: 
Mar. Staff: Switzky.  
 
Last on the land use agenda, the Committee considered both the Jobs Housing Linkage 
Fee and the Jobs Housing Fit Report at the same time. You’ll recall that the Planning 
Commission heard the Jobs Housing Balance ordinance on September 19 and voted to 
recommend approval.  
 
The Jobs-Housing Fit report was prepared by The Budget & Legislative Analyst office and 
was published on October 16. The report was done at the request of Supervisor Gordon 
Mar. The report looks at both actual and projected job growth and compares that to actual 
and projected housing production in terms of the wage levels of the jobs and the 
affordability levels of the housing.  
 
Not surprisingly, the report concluded that there has been insufficient construction of BMR 
housing as measured by the growth of lower wage jobs. The report did not make any 
policy recommendations about how the City could or should increase production of BMR 
units. It did however include two non-policy recommendations:  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 24, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 19 
 
1. That the BoS could request Planning to prepare an annual report comparing actual 
and projected job and housing growth by income. At the hearing Supervisor Mar 
indicated his intention to introduce legislation to do exactly that.  
 
2. That the BoS could request MOHCD to more closely track the use of JHL fee revenues to 
construct affordable housing and report annually to the BoS.  
 
The report was presented as a prelude to the Jobs Housing Linkage Fee hearing, which is 
why the two items were called together for public comment and discussion. During the 
public comment there were many speakers, the vast majority of which were in support of 
increasing the Jobs-housing linkage fee.  
 
Supervisor Haney introduced amendments to the Jobs Housing Linkage fee ordinance that 
phased in the fee increase. Projects with a complete application submitted on or before 
September 10 would pay $57.14 per square foot, projects submitted after that date but 
before January 1, 2022 would pay $63.37, and projects submitted after January 1, 2022 
would pay the full amount of $69.90.  
 
The Committee then forwarded the item to the Full Board with a positive recommendation 
on a 2-3 vote with Supervisor Safai voting against. Supervisor Safai stated that he wanted 
more time to understand how the fee increase would impact development and had 
requested additional time for that.  
 
I would also note that in the report I sent to you this morning incudes additional 
information and discussion about the report for your reference. (see below)  
 
Full Board  
• 
190644 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2031 Bush Street (aka the Kinmon 
Gakuen Building). Sponsors: Brown; Peskin. Staff: Ferguson. PASSED Second Read  
 
• 
181215 Administrative, Planning Codes - South of Market Community Advisory 
Committee. Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Snyder. PASED Second Read  
 
Introductions  
• 
And lastly Supervisor Peskin introduced an ordinance this week that would amend The 
City’s planning code to add a new “residential use” characteristic, called “intermediate 
length occupancy,” to define corporate rentals. This item has not been transmitted to 
us yet, but we will be bringing it to you for your review and action.  
 
Jobs-Housing Fit Report  
The Budget & Legislative Analyst published a Policy Analysis Report on October 16 at the 
request of Supervisor Gordon Mar that deals with the question of “Jobs-Housing Fit.” In 
simple terms, an analysis of jobs-housing fit looks at both actual and projected job growth 
and compares that to actual and projected housing production in terms of the wage levels 
of the jobs and the affordability levels of the housing. Such analysis theoretically reveals 
quantitatively how well housing production matches the income profile of a growing 
workforce.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 24, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 19 
 
Not surprisingly, and mirroring recent reports produced by the Planning Department, 
including the Housing Needs & Trends Report published in July 2018, the BLA report found 
that job growth between 2010-2018 overall and at all wage levels dramatically outpaced 
housing production at all income levels, though the BLA report focusses its energy on the 
shortfall of BMR units as compared to growth of low wage jobs. The City added close to 
200,000 jobs in this period and only 25,000 housing units were produced, of which 25% 
were BMR. The lion’s share of job growth has been at the high end and the low end. The 
report looked only at job data that blended SF with San Mateo County and so did not 
actually produce a quantitative jobs-housing fit analysis of the past decade of SF job 
growth compared to SF housing production. Similar analysis conducted by Planning using 
SF-specific information has shown that in addition to severely falling short of meeting BMR 
housing needs, the City also has fallen far short of producing market rate housing as 
compared to recent growth of high wage jobs and high income households, whereby the 
City added over 60,000 high-income households in the past decade but only produced 
about 18,000 market rate units, the result being that those households occupied existing 
housing units.  
 
The BLA report also attempted to project forward 10 years, showing that, according to 
their analysis, projected job growth at the low wage end is substantially higher than the 
current pipeline of entitled BMR units and that the pipeline of market rate units exceeds 
future job growth projections of high wage jobs. However, there are substantial 
unresolved caveats and considerations with this analysis that Planning should note for the 
Commission. First, the housing pipeline information presented by BLA was substantially 
incorrect and not reflective of the pipeline data posted by the Department online, as well 
as excluded consideration of all of the entitled large-scale DA projects. Second, the BLA 
forward-looking analysis did not account for the shortfalls, at all income levels, of the past 
ten years of housing production as compared to job growth, taking a position that we are 
starting from a neutral position. Finally, the projections are reliant on EDD projections that 
have not necessarily been compared with the actual pipeline or projection of commercial 
development in SF.  
 
Nevertheless, the indisputable conclusion of the report is that there has been insufficient 
construction of BMR housing as measured by the growth of lower wage jobs. The report 
did not make any policy recommendations about how the City could or should increase 
production of BMR units. The two recommendations included:  
 
1) That the BoS could request Planning to prepare an annual report comparing actual 
and projected job and housing growth by income. At the hearing Supervisor Mar 
indicated his intention to introduce legislation to do exactly that. Planning looks 
forward to working with Supervisor Mar and the Commission when and if this 
legislation is submitted.  
 
2) That the BoS could request MOHCD to more closely track the use of JHL revenues to 
construct affordable housing and report annually to the BoS.  
 
The report was presented as a prelude to the Jobs Housing Linkage Fee hearing, and they 
were called together as one item for public comment and discussion. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 24, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 19 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered three items that may be of 
interest to the Planning Commission. 1794 Filbert Street was considered by the Planning 
Commission earlier this year where you denied the building permit for vertical addition to 
the subject property. The Zoning Administrator also denied the associated Variance. As 
noted in a previous summary, the Board heard this item on September 11, 2019 and 
continued the item to allow additional time for the Planning Department to review revised 
plans that reduced the size of the vertical addition. Such that a Variance would no longer 
be required and add one ADU on the ground floor in a form on a non-conforming space. 
During this time, the project sponsor addressed all Planning Department design comments 
and the Zoning Administrator  issued the required ADU waivers. Last night the Board voted 
unanimously to grant the appeal and approve the project as revised.  
 
471 Jesse Street, the Board heard the appeal of a denial by the Department of Public 
Health to allow grandfathered onsite smoking for an existing MCD on the property. The 
Planning Department denied the associated referral from the Health Department which 
led to the disapproval of the permit because the MCD had never been authorized for onsite 
smoking. While onsite smoking have been observed by DPH staff over the years. The 
original application indicated that onsite consumption would not be provided and this was 
clearly stated in the hearing materials including notification. The Board voted unanimously 
to deny the appeal. 
 
11 Gladys Street, the Board heard the appeal of a building permit for a vertical addition on 
the subject property. The Planning Commission heard this as a DR in October of 2018 and 
unanimously approved the project without modifications. The addition is partially within 
the required rear yard and obtained Variance from the Zoning Administrator. The CEQA 
determination was subsequently appealed to the Board of Supervisors in January 2019 
which upheld the CEQA determination. The Variance decision was subsequently appealed 
to the Board of Appeals in April of 2019 which upheld the Variance decision. Last night the 
Board of Appeals unanimously upheld the building permit application for the subject 
property.