4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and took action on two items that maybe of 
interest to the Commission. The Board of Appeals held their election of officers, although 
they can never replace their previous president, Frank Fung, they elected Rick Swig to the 
office of President and Ann Lazarus to the office of Vice President. The Board heard the 
appeal of a Letter of Determination for 1145 Polk Street. At issuance this appeal was the 
appropriate fee methodology for the project which received its site permit in 2018. Last 
year, the MOHCD and Planning worked together to modify the fee methodology for 
payment of the in-lieu fee for the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Program, formed a per 
unit fee to a per square foot fee. This change became effective on January 1st of this year to 
implement this discreet change in a fair, consistent, and efficient manner. The City tied the 
methodology to the site permit issuance date, which is when fees are assessed to a project 
under the Planning and Building codes. For projects with a site permit issuance date before 
January 1st, 2019, the old methodology applies. For site permits issued after this date, the 
new methodology applies. The project was originally authorized with on-site BMR units; 
however, the project sponsor sought the Letter of Determination to allow them to pay the 
fee using the new methodology, which would have reduced their fee from approximately 
$3.4 million to $2.1 million. The Zoning Administrator found that the change would 
require Planning Commission approval and that the old fee methodology would be 
required based upon the rules adopted by the City to implement this change. The Board 
voted unanimously to uphold the Zoning Administrator's determination.  
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday, and I think the one item that 
may be of interest to the Commission was 770 Woolsey. There was a petition from a 
neighborhood organization to add the 2-acre site just below McLaren Park. It was the old 
nurseries for flowers, I believe, way back in the day, to the Landmark Work Program. The 
Commission is down -- the Historic Preservation Commission is actually down to five 
Commissioners. Commissioners Johnck and Wolfram are no longer with that commission 
and their seats have yet to be replaced. Commission President Hyland actually had to 
recuse himself, so they were down to four commissioners to consider the matter and 
needed a unanimous vote. A motion to not add it to the work program failed 3-1 with 
Commissioner Matsuda voting against and there was no alternate motion to continue or 
otherwise. And so, that application failed in front of the Historic Preservation Commission.   
 
Aaron Starr: 
Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. First in the Land Use Committee agenda was 
Supervisor Mandelman's ordinance that proposes to modify the buildable envelope for 
buildings in our districts. Commissioners, you heard this item on April 11th and 
recommended approval with modifications. As reported last week at the July 8th Land Use 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 18, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 14 
 
Committee hearing, Supervisor Mandelman described the ordinance and proposed several 
amendments including two of the four modifications that you proposed. Supervisor Peskin 
also proposed amendments that would tie development of ADUs to entering into a Costa 
Hawkins agreement for that new development. Because of the substantive nature of the 
amendments, the item was continued to this Monday. At this Monday’s hearing, the public 
comment was in favor of the ordinance and the supervisors’ amendments. The Committee 
moved to send the ordinance as amended with a favorable recommendation to the Full 
Board.  
 
Next, the Committee heard Supervisor Mandelman's ordinance that proposes to increase 
the permissibility of arts activities and institutional use of public facilities, general 
entertainment, and certain other retail uses in the Upper Market and NCT-3 zoning 
districts. You heard this item on May 9th and recommended approval with modifications. 
Also reported last week, the Land Use Committee heard this and Supervisor Mandelman 
proposed eight amendments last week to the ordinance including the modifications you 
proposed. Because of the substantive nature of the amendments, the item was continued 
to this week. At this Monday’s hearing, the Committee moved to send the ordinance as 
amended with a favorable recommendation to the Board.  
 
The Committee then considered Supervisor Safai’s ordinance that proposes to limit the size 
and bedroom count of residential buildings in the Oceanview, Merced Heights, and 
Ingleside neighborhoods by using floor area ratio and conditional use authorization. You 
heard this ordinance on June 13th and recommended approval. At the Land Use hearing on 
Monday, public comment was in full support of the ordinance, seeing it as a way to control 
building size and illegal conversion of dwelling units into group housing. During their 
deliberation, the Supervisors were supportive of the ordinance. Supervisor Peskin did 
asked about the implementation of the bedroom count limit and the nature of the FAR 
controls. Staff indicated that the Enforcement planner would determine any violations of 
the bedroom count limit and that the FAR controls were established to incentivized 
increased density in those zoning districts. The Committee then moved to recommend the 
ordinance to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
The Committee also considered Supervisor Haney's interim controls that would require 
conditional use authorization for a change of use from any nighttime entertainment use to 
another use in the South of Market area. This item did not come to you as it is an interim 
control. Interim control was spurred by the potential loss of the Mezzanine Nightclub. 
During the hearing, most speakers were in favor of the proposed CU requirement. A few 
people, including the property owner of the space, spoke against it. In the end, the 
Committee voted to forward the resolution to the Full Board with a positive 
recommendation. If passed by the Board, it will become effective ten days after.  
 
Next, the Committee considered the Mayor's ordinance that would abolish the North of 
Market Affordable Housing Fund and instead have those affordable housing fees 
deposited into the Citywide Affordable Housing Fund. The collected fees will still be 
earmarked to stabilize, rehabilitate, and retain affordable housing in the North of Market 
residential SUD. This Commission heard the item on June 13th and recommended approval 
with the modification to index the fee at $25.41 per square foot. Due to a drafting 
oversight, the index fee was not included in the ordinance passed by the Land Use 
Committee, but it will be included at the Full Board next week. There was no comment 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 18, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
from the committee members and there was only one public comment or whose 
comments were not directly related to the ordinance itself. The Committee then voted to 
recommend approval.  
 
Finally, the Committee heard Supervisor Brown's ordinance that would allow intermittent 
activities like farmers' markets in our zoning districts if they are located on a parcel that 
contains a public facility. Currently, such uses are allowed if they are located on a property 
with a hospital or post secondary educational institution. The Planning Commission heard 
this item on June 20th and recommended approval. At the committee, there was no public 
comment and no discussion by the committee members, and they recommended 
approval.  
 
And then finally at the Full Board this week, the Board heard an appeal of a tentative map 
approval for the project at 2146 Union Street. This property is a mixed-use building with a 
ground-floor retail and two dwelling units. The proposed project includes the addition of 
four new residential units at the rear of the building, interior renovations and facade 
modifications. The height of the building is increasing from about 38 or 39 feet to 40 feet, 
in addition to three stair penthouses that will rise an additional 8 feet above the roof. 
Commissioners, you did not hear this item as it did not require a hearing and the DR was 
not filed. The appellant was not included in the original neighborhood notice, since they 
are outside the 150-foot neighborhood notification radius but they were within the 300-
foot radius required from that notice. The appellants brought up two issues and the appeal 
response – the first is that they were not notified of the proposed construction which, as I 
mentioned before, they were not close enough to be noticed. The second issue is that the 
proposal includes the substantial increase in the vertical height over the height of the 
existing building. They contend that the increase in height will block or diminish views 
resulting in a loss of quality of life and property values. Since this appeal was over the 
condo subdivision, the appellant's issues were not relevant, and the Board was not in a 
position to do anything about the proposed project. Supervisor Stephanie explained this 
during her comments and said that she sympathized with the appellant's issues and was 
looking at ways to address the noticing issue. She then moved to approve the map and 
deny the appeal. And that is all I have for you today.