13. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
No new announcements today commissioners, except to say that I do hope, also hope, 
that there's a very smooth transition in the coming months and I'll do my best to make 
that happen.   
 
14. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
190644 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2031 Bush Street (aka the Kinmon 
Gakuen Building). Sponsors: Brown. Staff: D. Smith. Item 1  
 
This week, the Land Use Committee heard the landmark designation for 2301 Bush Street. 
The Historic Preservation Committee heard this item on February 6 of this year and voted to 
recommend approval.  
 
Completed in 1926 and designed in the Mediterranean Revival style, the 2301 Bush Street is 
significant from its association with the social, cultural, and educational enrichment of 
Japanese Americans in San Francisco. It was the home of Japanese language and culture 
school, Kinmon Gakuen. It was one of four purpose-built community facilities whose 
construction was funded by the local Japanese American community in San Francisco’s 
Japantown. The building is also associated with the incarceration of U.S. citizens and 
residents of Japanese descent during World War II. Following President Roosevelt’s signing 
of Executive Order No. 9066, the building was used as a processing center where citizens 
and non-citizens of Japanese ancestry were required to report before they were incarcerated 
and relocated to concentration camps across the United States. It is also significant for its 
association with community activism among African Americans as home of the Booker T. 
Washington Community Center from 1942 to 1952.  
 
During the hearing three speakers spoke in favor of the designation and Supervisor Peskin 
requested to be added as a co-sponsor of the ordinance. The Committee voted unanimously 
to recommend designation to the Full Board.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 3, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
Rules Committee  
• 
181215 Administrative, Planning Codes - South of Market Community Advisory 
Committee] Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Starr for Snyder.  
 
At the Rules Committee this week, the committee reviewed Supervisor Haney’s ordinance 
that would create the South of Market Advisory Committee. Commissioners, you heard his 
item on September 19 and voted to recommend approval with modifications. The two 
modifications were to reduce the residency requirement for the SoMa Stabilization CAC, and 
proposed amendments to the membership requirements for the new SoMa Planning CAC. 
Supervisor Haney did include the Commission recommendation to reduce the residency 
requirement but not the membership requirements for the Planning CAC. There were two 
speakers in favor of the ordinance and the Committee forwarded the item to the Full Board 
with a positive recommendation.  
 
Full Board  
• 
190908 Interim Zoning Controls - Conditional Use Authorization for Conversion of 
Residential Care Facilities to Other Uses. Sponsors: Mandelman; Yee, Safai, Haney and 
Peskin. Staff: Starr. Adopted  
 
At the Full Board this week, the Board voted to adopt Supervisor Mandelman’s Resolution 
that would require CU Authorization for the change of use of a Residential Care Facility to 
another use. These interim controls will last for 18 months, or until permanent controls are 
adopted. This was also the only item that was heard at last week’s Land Use Committee at 
which obtained a recommendation of approval. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There's no report from the Board of Appeals. The Historic Preservation Commission did meet 
yesterday. They held a Closed Session on AAU, the similar advice that you received from the 
City Attorney's office. In addition, what might be of interest to the Planning Commission is 
that they considered supporting nominations to the National Register of Historic Places for 
the Gran Oriente Filipino Hotel and Japanese YWCA, the Isai Women's Building and adopted 
resolutions in support of both of those buildings.   
 
President Melgar: 
Cool. Great! Thank you.   
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
I had not been aware of that building in Japantown that was discussed yesterday. I had no 
idea it was designed by Julia Morgan. In addition to all its other interesting history, it was 
actually designed by the most famous woman architect in the state, if not the country of 
that era, so that was great.