10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, good afternoon. First on behalf of the Department, welcome to 
Commissioner Diamond. It's great to have you here, we look forward to working with you. 
And even though our time together will be short, I have about three months, I look 
forward to that and to the future.   
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Secondly, I wanted to call to your attention briefly the memo that is in your packet from 
me regarding the Excelsior Work. This came up a couple weeks ago on a project. The 
Excelsior and the Commission asked about planning efforts in the Excelsior. I just wanted 
to call that out and remind you of that memo. And actually, also remind you that we are 
coming up on the budget process. So, if there are specific ideas and requests that you 
have, we will be bringing the budget to you in January and February. I think as typically 
required, the budget goes to the mayor, I think the third week in February. So, we will be 
bringing that budget process to you in the next few weeks, and we can think about this 
work in the context of that process.  
 
Thirdly, I'm very pleased to announce that my colleague, Jeff Joslin, sitting next to me has 
been recognized and given an award by the local AIA, that is a very nice award. Jeff is 
receiving the Local Government Award in the 2019 AIA San Francisco Community Alliance 
Awards Program. It recognizes an elected or appointed organization or individual who 
establishes and contributes to the development of laws, regulations and policies that 
promote excellence in architecture. Jeff has been working very diligently with the local AIA 
on all of our procedures and programs to streamline the process, to have more 
transparency in the process and I'm really gratified to see that the AIA is recognizing his 
work in giving him that award. So, we congratulate Mr. Joslin.   
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use was canceled last week for Veteran's Day and also this week so there's nothing to 
report on that. And then at this week's Rules Committee, the Committee voted to forward 
the Mayor's Planning Commission appointment Sue Diamond, and a ruining the surprise 
there, to the Board, without a recommendation. The vote passed with a 2-1 vote with 
Supervisor Walton voting against the motion because he wanted to recommend approval 
to the Board.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 21, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 18 
 
 
Last week the temporary Cannabis Business Permit to your extension passed its first read. 
And also last week the Supervisors considered the ordinances allowing for the 
development at 3333 California Street as well as the CU and CEQA appeal. The proposed 
project is a mixed use project with 744 dwelling units, about 3,500 square feet of retail and 
15,000 square feet of childcare. The Planning Commission certified the final EIR on 
September 5, 2019. While the appellant raised 18 concerns in the appeal, the main item 
that the appellant focused on was the claim with the EIR failed to adequately review 
potential design modifications to reduce the project’s significant historic resource impacts. 
The appellant continued to assert that one of the community proposed alternatives should 
be approved instead of the project. The Department maintained that the community 
alternatives were considerably like the alternatives discussed in the EIR and that the 
community alternatives could not be built and would not achieve the units desired. Public 
comment during the hearing centered around concerns of the tree removal at the project 
site and its impact on climate change and concerns over the type of retail uses permitted 
and the allowable hours of operation for those uses. Opponents of the proposed project 
also supported the community alternative endorsed by the Laurel Heights Improvement 
Association.  
 
Regarding the tree removal and how that would exacerbate climate change, staff and the 
project sponsors noted that the project overall would not increase greenhouse gas 
emissions. The project would plant more trees than it would remove it. And it was certified 
by the Governor as an AB900 environmental leadership project with a net zero additional 
greenhouse gas emissions. The project is an infill development located in proximity to 
frequent transit service and thus as such will have lower vehicle miles traveled, will also 
comply with the city’s successful greenhouse gas reduction strategy which supports the 
state's ambitious climate goals. In the big picture, the climate change benefits of this 
project would far outweigh the temporary loss of carbon sequestering trees from the 
project site. In the end, the Board voted to deny the environmental appeal and CU appeal 
with the unanimous vote of Supervisor Peskin absent. The Board then voted to approve 
the related entitlement ordinances for the project. Of note, this appeal provided an 
opportunity for the Department to explain how infill development projects like 3333 
California are consistent with the state's strategies to reduce BMT and greenhouse gas 
emissions. There's also hope this will help decision makers and the public to be more 
informed about climate change benefits of infill development while ensuring that the 
environmental impact of traffic, such as noise, air pollution and safety concerns continue 
to be properly addressed and mitigated through the California Environmental Quality Act.  
 
At this week's Board hearing, both 3333 California Street and the extension for the canvas 
permits passed their second read. Commissioner Diamond was appointed to the Planning 
Commission. And the Board is also meeting today for a special hearing to consider an issue 
of ordinance for the March 3rd elections that would place a tax on vacant commercial 
properties.  
 
Finally, Supervisor Safai has introduced a resolution to initiate proceedings for the 
Landmark Designation of 4767 Mission Street. This is the first step in the landmark 
designation process for board sponsored landmark designations. And that concludes my 
report.  Thanks. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 21, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 18 
 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Mr. Starr, what is 4768 Mission Street?   
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
I'm not entirely sure. Do you know?  I will send you some information on it. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Okay great, thanks. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet but had nothing of interest for the Planning Commission. 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. They approved several -- or they 
adopted recommendations for approval of several Legacy Business applications. More 
significantly, they adopted CEQA findings and approved a master Certificate of 
Appropriateness and a master Major Permit to Alter for the Academy of Art University 
which you will be taking up today. And actually, their action enables you to take up that 
matter today.   
 
President Melgar: 
Jonas, did The Community Music Center get a Legacy Business?   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
It did. It did.   
 
President Melgar: 
Okay. Because they’re coming in front of us. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
They did, indeed.   
 
President Melgar: 
Thank you.