6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you, good afternoon everyone. I was also going to make a comment of the 
conference. It turns out we learned on Wednesday at the close of the conference that the 
Planning conference attracted a record number of attendees, about 60,500 came to the 
conference. And, I heard nothing but great reviews of the City and the conference from my 
colleagues. It was, it is often gratifying, you know, we are -- on our day-to-day work we 
sort of take our city for granted and only focus on the challenges, and I think it was 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 18, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
gratifying to hear other folks come from other places say what a great place this is. So, I 
was very gratified and very pleased at the results.  
 
Secondly, Commissioners, I'm not sure, you may be aware of this housing legislative 
working group that ABAG and MTC has convened. The Mayor has asked me and Ken Rich 
to represent the City on that task force. It is meeting weekly for seven weeks. It's a fairly 
big-time commitment. We've had two meetings. I attended the first, was not able to 
attend the second and the purpose of this working group that was convened fairly quickly 
at the request of several ABAG and MTC board members to analyze the huge number of 
bills that are pending in Sacramento, of which I believe there are 240. So that group is a 
group of representatives from all nine counties. The staff of ABAG and MTC are kind of 
doing analysis of the most pertinent of the bills. They've identified 36 that they think are 
will have the most impact and they're going through a fairly rigorous analysis process of 
the -- you know, the impacts of those bills. Obviously, it's not just San Francisco focus, but 
regionally focused and statewide focused. So, these meetings are open to the public. The 
next one is this evening at 7:00 PM at the Metro Center on Beale Street. They are weekly 
meetings; however, they are not all at the same time. Just because this happened so 
quickly, they have been juggling schedules. So, I will just say for the members of the 
Commission and the public to check the website at bayareametro.gov and the schedule is 
posted. And I'll certainly bring back any of the results from that staff analysis to the 
Commission and staff as it comes forward. So hopefully we’ll be able to -- I guess there is 
five more meetings left, including this evening, and I'll be able to report to you as we go. 
Thank you, that concludes my presentation.   
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
190364 Bi-Annual Housing Balance Report No. 8. Sponsor: Mar. Staff: Ojeda.  
 
At Monday’s Land Use hearing, Planning Department presented the bi-annual housing 
balance report. Briefly, the report found that between Q1 of 2009 and Q4 of 2018, 
about 25% of net new housing produced as affordable. By comparison, the expanded 
Citywide Cumulative Housing Balance is also 25%, although this varies by districts. The 
Projected Housing Balance Citywide is 20%. Three major development projects were 
excluded from the projected housing balance calculations until site permits are 
obtained. When included in the calculations, these three projects would increase the 
projected housing balance to 22%.  
 
During Staff’s presentation, Supervisor Peskin interjected that there needs to be a way 
to track units that were lost due to tenant buyouts, stating that knew of examples that 
were not included in the report. After Staff’s presentation, Supervisor Safai wanted to 
know about the owner move-in data and the information the Department uses to 
calculate this in the report, and Supervisor Haney wanted to know more about how we 
could track different forms of housing for specific populations, such as formally 
homeless housing and child-friendly housing. The committee then accepted the report 
and closed the hearing.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 18, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
Full Board  
• 
190188 Planning Code - Amending Landmark Designation - 906 Broadway (Iglesia de 
Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe/Our Lady of Guadalupe Church. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: 
Smith. PASSED Second Read  
 
• 
190230 Interim Zoning Controls - Conditional Use Authorization for Conversion of 
Child Care Facilities to Other Uses. Sponsor: Yee. Staff: Flores. Adopted  
 
• 
190275 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
3620 Buchanan Street. Staff: Navarrete, Horner.  
 
Lastly, the Board heard the CEQA Appeal for 3620 Buchanan Street. This project 
proposed to construct an eight-unit 4-story building on the same lot as a historic 
resource. Commissioners, you heard this item on January 22, 2019, and voted to 
approve the Conditional Use Authorization for the proposed project.  
 
The main CEQA appeal issues discussed at the Board were related to the potential for 
public exposure to hazardous materials, impacts to historic resources and consistency 
with existing zoning regulations, including the project sponsor’s request for a rear yard 
modification.  
 
Public comment mainly focused on hazardous materials in soils, historic resource 
impacts, loss of light and air from adjacent new building at 1598 Bay Street. 
Supervisors Peskin and Stefani had concerns related to historic resource impacts; 
however, staff was able to alleviate those concerns. Stefani also asked for confirmation 
that the site would be cleaned up properly under State oversight like the cleanup 
process at 1598 Bay Street.  
 
The CEQA appeal was subsequently denied and the Catex was unanimously upheld 
unanimously. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I have no reports from the Board of Appeals. Historic Preservation Commission did meet 
yesterday, but nothing of interest to the Planning Commission.