8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Just a couple announcements. I was going to talk about the roof decks. We have talked 
about that. We will schedule a hearing on that. The second thing is that article about the 
100,000 units. I also caught light of that. I’m happy -- I think we definitely need to look at 
the methodology. I can't imagine the number is anywhere near that. That is one quarter of 
the city’s housing stock. The city has only 400,000 units in total.  
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
This is for the entire Bay Area. They corrected it. 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
In the Bay Area? Okay, I don't know the number is for the city but okay. So, anyway we will 
look at that. Because this, that method, the methods of calculating and kind of discovering 
what units are truly vacant is a very inexact science and there has been a number of 
attempts to look at that but definitely want to look the background of this particular study. 
And thirdly, I am stunned to hear about Ms. Woods' passing. We worked with her very 
closely. She’s been on the Mission Bay CAC for many years.  She was on the advisory board 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 4, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 15 
 
of our study of the Rail Yard Plan, and she has just been actively involved in the community 
in that part of the city for years and years and years. I am very sad to hear of her passing. 
She was a very gracious person who I really enjoyed working with and speaking with. So, I 
am very sad to hear of her passing and I would certainly also reiterate the request to have 
the meeting adjourned in her memory. Thank you.  
 
SPEAKERS: 
- Kathleen Courtney – Roof Decks Policy 
 
 
- Ozzie Rohm – Roof Decks Policy 
 
 
- Bruce Bowen – Roof Decks Policy  
 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
MARCH 18-22, 2019  
• 190030 Planning, Administrative Codes - Zoning Controls and Fees in the C-3-R 
(Downtown Retail) District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Butkus.  
 
At the March 18th Land Use hearing the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s 
ordinance to amend the Open Space fee in the C-3-R District from $4 a square foot to 
$6 a square foot for the conversion of retail to office. Commissioners you heard this 
item on February 21 and recommended approval. At the land use hearing there was 
some public comment from representatives of Union Square landowners expressing 
concern about the increased fee. In the end the Committee voted to recommend the 
item to the Full Board.  
 
April 1-5, 2019  
• 181211 Health, Planning, and Police Codes - Small Business Permit Streamlining. 
Sponsors: Mayor; Brown.  
 
This week, the land use committee considered Mayor Breed and Supervisor Brown’s 
Small Business Permit Streamlining ordinance. This item would, among other things, 
reduce the buffer around LCUs and LCCUs from ¼ mile to 300’, allow outdoor activity 
hours as of right, and rationalize certain liquor license restrictions. Commissioners, you 
heard this item on March 7 of this year and voted to approve with modification. The 
proposed modification was to retain the Conditional Use Authorization requirement 
for Outdoor Activity Areas associated with a Bar use. After comments from Staff, the 
committee continued the item to the call of the chair 
 
Full Board  
MARCH 18-22, 2019  
• 181154 Planning Code – Ordinance to remove grandfathering exceptions for an 
additional inclusionary housing fee on State Density Bonus projects. Sponsor: 
Peskin. Staff: Bintliff. Continued to April 2, 2019  
 
• 190047Administrative, Planning Codes - Streamlined Contracting for Homeless 
Services and Siting for Homeless Shelters. Sponsors: Mayor; Brown, Walton, Haney, 
Mandelman and Stefani. Staff: Conner. Passed First Read  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 4, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 15 
 
 
April 1-5, 2019  
• 190047Administrative, Planning Codes - Streamlined Contracting for Homeless 
Services and Siting for Homeless Shelters. Sponsors: Mayor; Brown, Walton, Haney, 
Mandelman and Stefani. Staff: Conner. PASSED Second Read  
• 181154 Planning Code - Ordinance to remove grandfathering exceptions for an 
additional inclusionary housing fee on State Density Bonus projects. Sponsor: 
Peskin. Staff: Bintliff. Passed First Read  
• 190030 Planning Code - Union Square Park, Recreation, and Open Space Fee. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Butkus. Passed First Read  
• 90198 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental 
Review - Outside Lands Festival Use Permit. Staff: Fordham.  
 
Lastly the Board heard a CEQA appeal for the 10-year contract renewal and use permit 
for the Outside Lands Music Festival. The appeal primarily raised issues around the 
noise produced by the event. The appellant stated the project should not be exempt 
from CEQA review, and department should impose CEQA noise mitigation measures, 
and numerical noise thresholds. The department stated that while the festival does 
increase the ambient noise levels, the duration of this increase is very limited and 
therefore it does not result in a significant noise impact. 
 
Most of the public comment for the appeal stated that the noise was too loud, and 
numeric noise thresholds should be imposed. Public comment for upholding the 
departments determination stated the noise was not too loud; that such events are 
part of living in an urban setting; and the festival was an economic benefit to the outer 
Richmond and Sunset neighborhoods.  
 
Several supervisors asked questions about how the department analyzes noise 
impacts, and asked question to the Recreation and Park department about how they 
address the noise complaints received during the event. In the end Supervisor Fewer 
moved to uphold the departments CEQA determination. In doing so she 
acknowledged the festival does have tradeoffs for the community, but that the 
benefits outweigh those impacts. The Appeal was denied unanimously. 
 
Tim Frye, Preservation Officer: 
Good afternoon Commissioners. Tim Frye, department staff, with two items from 
yesterday’s Historic Preservation Commission to share with you, both landmark 
designations. The Commission afforded a positive recommendation for landmark 
designation to 2851 24th Street, known as Galleria De La Raza. There was a good deal of 
discussion among the Commissioners about whether or not to extend the designation to 
the interior storefront gallery spaces. There was a concern that limitations in designating 
the interior volume would also provide restriction or would result in restrictions that would 
limit new uses entering or contracting for that site.  So as a result, the Commission decided 
to designate the exterior of the building, the liberated mural on the exterior, and the 
storefront’s immediately on the interior sort of the storefront base and decided not to 
designate the volume. That recommendation will go to the Full Board and then referred to 
the Land Use Committee shortly.  The second item was 2031 Bush Street, also known as 
Kinmon Gakuen, in the Japantown neighborhood, the Japanese language school. The 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 4, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 15 
 
building is significant for a variety of reasons including its original use and current use as a 
Japanese language center. The processing center for Japanese interment during World 
War II, A Booker T. Washington community center’s use and stewardship of the building 
during the war, and then its return back to the Japanese language school after the war 
when the Japanese were allowed to move back into San Francisco. The project sponsor, 
the owners were there, and they wholeheartedly support the designation and the 
Commission unanimously recommended an initiation. It has one more hearing at the 
Commission and then it will go to the Full Board for consideration. So those are the two 
items to share with you and I’m happy to answer any questions. Thank you. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I have no report from the Board of Appeals.