7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Dan Sider: 
Commissioners, good afternoon. Dan Sider with staff sitting in today, at this hearing for 
director Rahaim. Just to very briefly talk about something that we touched on earlier in the 
hearing. A different change, that of Commissioner Hillis. Just want to acknowledge his 
service. Acknowledge his support for staff. His respect for the professional Planning 
product that we produce at the department and wish him luck. Thank you. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee 
• 
190450 Hearing - State of the Restaurant Industry. Sponsors: Fewer; Mandelman, Mar 
and Ronen. Staff: Starr. Item 2 
 
This week, the Land Use Committee held a hearing on the state of the restaurant industry 
in San Francisco. The hearing was called by Supervisor Fewer, but Supervisors Mandelman, 
Mar and Ronen co-sponsored the hearing. Representatives from the Golden Gate 
Restaurant Association, OEWD, DBI, DPW, DPH, The Treasurer Office and Planning all gave 
presentations on what has been done to improve the restaurant permitting process and 
recommendations for further improvements. For Planning’s part we talked about the 2011 
Restaurant definitions rationalization ordinance, improved web-based tools, the CB3P 
program, the elimination of neighborhood notification for businesses in D11 and D4, and a 
dedicated liaison between Planning and OEWD. For possible further action, Planning 
suggested reviewing current CU requirements for Restaurants in NC Districts and removing 
notification in more neighborhoods to shorten the approval process. 
 
Issues raised by restaurant businesses at the hearing included the long and costly 
permitting process, burdensome fees, homelessness and drug activity, street cleanliness, 
and perhaps most significant affordable housing for their workforce. The hearing 
concluded with the Supervisors dedicating themselves to continuing the conversation in 
order to look at ways to reduce the barriers for new restaurants and to find ways to help 
existing restaurants stay in business. The hearing was continued to the call of the chair. 
 
Full Board 
• 
190812 Planning Code - Allowing Long-Term Parking of and Overnight Camping in 
Vehicles and Ancillary Uses at 2340 San Jose Avenue. Sponsors: Safai; Yee and Ronen. 
Staff: D. Sanchez. Passed First Read 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet, but nothing to report from there. The Historic Preservation 
Commission did meet yesterday and there's nothing to report from there. With the 
exception that the mayor has submitted two names to replace Historic Preservation 
Commissioners. They were before the Rules Committee last week and were on the full 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 19, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 17 
 
board’s agenda this past Tuesday. However, those nominations were continued to next 
week.