12. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Commissioners, I wanted to spend a couple minutes, if I might, talking 
about kind of the current status of Proposition M and the allocation and how we are going 
to bring the projects to you. The continuation of 88 Bluxome today was partially or largely 
in response to a request by the developer to do something slightly different. So, as you 
recall, we have been taking Central SoMa projects in phases in the order that they are 
ready to be reviewed. The 88 Bluxome project sponsor came to us and asked if we would 
consider approving that, if you would consider approving that project in one phase with a 
slightly smaller project. And when we looked at that, we asked them to look at -- and part 
of the reason for that is because this building, their project is really designed as one 
building, it kind of looks like two, but in reality it is just one building. That was coupled 
with a recent analysis that we started looking at the unused allocation of office space from 
past approvals and I have asked the Zoning Administrator Teague to start looking at that. 
And as it turns out, there are -- there could be as much as between four and 500,000 
square feet of space that is largely the result of projects not building as much as they were 
approved to build. And a couple of those projects are quite – couple of those could be as 
much as 100,000 square feet each but they built smaller than they were approved for. So, 
when we looked at the request of 88 Bluxome developers along with the fact that we 
might have four to 500,000 square feet, we are in fact able to still move forward with the 
proposal that we have planned in the fall to allow phase one of all the Central SoMa 
projects to move forward as well as other projects that have come to you asking for 
approval. So, if I might, and again, I will put this all in the form of a memo, we are still 
gathering all the data, but just for your purposes and the public, and the project sponsors, I 
wanted to just outline what is coming in the next couple of phases.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 11, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 14 
 
So, you have already approved 598 Brannan which was the Tishman Speyer project. Next 
week you are scheduled to approve the first phase of Flower Mart, which is just short of 1.4 
million, and then the week after that, based on your continuance action just now, you 
would approve 88 Bluxome at about 775,000 square feet, that essentially depletes this 
year's Prop M with a few thousand square feet left over. So, in October when the next 
phase of Prop M comes forward, and if we add this additional space that I just described, 
you would be able to consider six projects, or four projects and then two others on Port 
property could go forward. And those projects are 60,000 square feet at Pier 70, 500,000 
square feet at Harrison Gardens which is the Boston Property project on Harrison and 
Fourth I guess, Transbay Parcel F, the project on Howard Street which is 275,000 square 
feet. They came to you during one of the hearings requesting that, if you recall, it is a very 
tall building with hotel and office and housing.  You would be able to consider One Vassar, 
which is Lawrence Louis' project on Harrison Street at 420,000, and then both Pier 70 and 
Mission Rock would be able to move forward as well under their agreement. As you know, 
you don't approve the Prop M for the Port sites, the office space on the Port property 
comes out of the pool when they pull building permits. So, again, you would be able to 
consider four projects in the fall and includes all of this phase I of all of the Central SoMa 
projects that we have been talking to you about. You would be able to do that even if you 
chose to go ahead and approve the full project at 88 Bluxome which is slightly reduced 
from their original proposal. So, if that all makes sense, and again, I'll put this in the form of 
a memo, but I just wanted to make sure that you and the project sponsors and the public 
all understood where we were headed on this. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Koppel: 
Thank you, Director.   
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
My apologies. The one thing I should add to all of that is that to actually capture this space 
that has been unused, you will have to take an action. We will likely bring that action to 
you in the early fall to literally revoke the unused space or the space of the projects that 
haven't been before you. So that actually will come to you probably in September, I think. 
Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Fung:   
A slight question, Director. Does that require a legal opinion? On the revocation of unused?   
 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
No. The Commission has done this in the past. There are two options. One is the project 
sponsor could voluntarily give it up, and if they do not, then the commission can revoke.   
 
Commissioner Fung:   
Okay.  Alright.  
 
13. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs for the 
Planning Department. At this week’s Land Use hearing, the Committee considered 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 11, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 14 
 
Supervisor Mandelman's Building Standard Ordinance. This ordinance would modify the 
building envelope for buildings in our districts. Some modifications include decreasing 
required front setbacks, increasing rear yard requirements, facilitating development of 
multiple buildings on through and corner lots and imposing additional height limits for 
buildings in the RH districts that abut in narrow street. Commissioners, you heard this item 
on April 11th and voted to recommend approval with modifications. Those modifications 
were to modify the front setback requirement for properties abutting narrow streets in the 
RH, RTO and RM Districts from 10 to 15 feet, clarify the process for altering non-conforming 
structures, further study the effects of imposing additional height limits for narrow streets 
in alleys in RH and RM Districts, and eliminate proposed language regarding the proposed 
-- the purpose of rear yards is providing views into green space. At the Land Use hearing, 
Supervisor Mandelman proposed several amendments including the first two of your 
proposed amendments, modifying the front setback from 15 to 10 and clarifying the 
process for altering nonconforming structures.  
 
Supervisor Peskin also proposed amendments that would tie development of ADUs to 
entering into a Costa Hawkins Agreement. Public comment was in support of the 
ordinance, especially those aspects that controlled building size and allowed additional 
density. Because the amendments were deemed substantive of the city attorney, the Land 
Use Committee moved to accept the amendments and continue the item to July 15th.  
 
Next, the Committee considered Supervisor Mandelman's ordinance that amends land use 
controls for the Upper Market and the NCT-3 Zoning Districts. The ordinance proposes to 
increase permissibility of arts activities, institutional uses, public facilities, general 
entertainment and other retail uses. You heard this item on May 9th and recommended 
approval with ten modifications. In summary, those modification sought to provide 
Planning staff with quantitative and consistent standards for liquor store review, 
maintaining or increasing permissibility of arts activities and health service  uses in the 
Upper Market Street NCT, increase the permissibility of liquor stores only selling beer and 
wine and the NCT-3 District, consider arts activities and liquor stores at their first story as 
active uses in both the zoning districts, eliminate phone traffic  administrative uses for the 
Planning Code and include health service uses in the list of uses subject to formula retail 
controls. Public comment was in support of the ordinance with the emphasis on how the 
ordinance will help fill vacant street level storefronts. The Land Use Committee hearing, 
Supervisor Mandelman proposed eight amendments to the ordinance in addition to the 
modifications you proposed. Because the amendments were deemed substantial by the 
city attorney, again this item was continued to the July 15th hearing.  
 
Next was the mayor and Supervisor Brown's Small Business Streamlining Ordinance. This 
ordinance with among other things would expand the types of liquor store licenses 
allowed with a bar use, reduce the quarter mile buffer around limited nonconforming 
commercial uses to 300 feet, amend the definition of general entertainment to include 
amusement game arcades and allow outdoor activity areas between the hours of 6 AM and 
10 PM as of right. Commissioners, you heard this item on March 7th and voted to approve 
with modifications. Your proposed modification was to retain the conditional use 
authorization requirement for outdoor activity areas associated with the bar use. During 
the hearing, the committee members discuss whether to eliminate the quarter-mile 
boundary around restricted use districts. They also discuss whether a business that holds 
both a nighttime entertainment and full-service restaurant permit should be allowed to 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 11, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 14 
 
operate without meeting the definition of bona fide eating establishment. Supervisor 
Peskin argued that buffer zones around RUDs would be -- should be retained unless 
specific neighborhoods would like to exempt their RUD from having a buffer. He also 
recommended designating whether controls for LC use and LCC use within a quarter mile 
of a district with stricter controls should apply for name neighbor commercial district or by 
supervisorial district. Supervisor Brown and the City Attorney cautioned against controls 
that were designated or designed – are designated by supervisorial districts. However, 
Brown said that she would reach out to her fellow supervisors in the coming weeks to get 
feedback with the goal of forming a citywide consensus. This item was then continued to 
the July 22nd hearing.  
 
And last, the Mayor and Supervisor Haney’s ordinance to allow temporary uses on 
development seismic was continued to July 22nd as well. There were no items at the Full 
Board this week that were Planning related. Finally, Supervisor Peskin introduced an 
ordinance before the July 4th holiday that changes the abandonment period for uses that 
require conditional use authorization in the North Beach Neighbor Commercial District 
from 18 months to three years. Three years is the standard abandonment period in the city 
and this provision was recently changed to 18 months as part of the article 7 
reorganization per the supervisor's requests. Only the Castro District would still use the 18-
month abandonment period if this ordinance passes. Steps not planned to bring this to the 
Planning Commission for a vote mainly because this ordinance would conform North 
Beach Neighbor Commercial District abandonment period to the standard CU 
abandonment period throughout the city. Further, there are a couple of applications 
pending review that would benefit from having this ordinance passed more expeditiously. 
Having a Planning Commission hearing for this item would delay the effective date of this 
ordinance until the end of the year. Particularly because of the upcoming summer recess. 
So, unless I hear from this Commission today that they would like to have a public hearing 
on that item, we will not be bringing this to you for a hearing.  And that concludes my 
report. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
I have two questions for you Mr. Starr. The first one is, in the recommendation we had in 
Supervisor Brown’s legislation that conditional use would be required for outdoor activity 
areas for bars. That was not accepted.  
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
I think there is still -- it is a very contentious piece of legislation and the dust hasn't settled 
on that, but I will get some clarification.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Okay great. And the second question is, why is the Castro exempt from three years?  Is that 
a result of -- 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
It’s just a -- that neighbor commercial district in North Beach didn't want the three-year 
abandonment period. They wanted an 18-month period. So, it just happened years ago.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Okay. Great thanks.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 11, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 12 of 14