6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioner, again thank you. Thank you for those really eloquent words. Really, really 
appreciate it and everything that you've done for us. Commissioners, I just wanted to 
mention one thing. You've gotten some emails about SB50 and the CASA Compact and we 
are scheduling a hearing in mid-March to discuss those items. And the reason that we 
haven't done it to date is that SB50 still has not been revised. We've been told it's going to 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 21, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
be revised, that it will be a very different version than what initially came out. We simply 
don't have it yet. So, we're waiting for that to happen. We expect it, perhaps, in two or 
three weeks. But so, we tentatively scheduled a March 14th hearing to present that and to 
present our analysis of that bill and, of course, that is pending, receiving the revised 
version. So, we'll keep you informed on how that goes. Thanks. That's all I have today.   
 
Commissioner Hillis: 
Can I just ask you a question on that? On the CASA Compact, are we going to have 
somebody from the MTC or the Board? I think it would be great. I know we heard about it a 
couple of weeks ago and got a summary from the staff, but it would also be good to hear 
from --   
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Okay. We can try. We can ask them to -- 
 
Commissioner Hillis: 
If that’s possible. 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
We can ask them to attend. 
 
President Melgar: 
Yes definitely. 
 
Commissioner Hillis: 
What date is it again? 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Unfortunately, I am not here that day, but the staff will be presenting it. 
 
Commissioner Hillis: 
Okay thank you. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Christine Silva, Acting Commission Secretary: 
 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and took action on one item of interest to the  
Planning Commission, which was an appeal of the building permit for a rear addition to a 
single-family home at 663 21st Avenue. The Commission heard the Discretionary Review 
for this permit on July 12th, 2018. The DR was filed by the adjacent neighbor due to 
concern that the addition would damage and make unsafe a large redwood tree. However, 
the project sponsor provided an arborist’s report stating that the proposed addition would 
not harm the tree any significant way, and the Commission voted to not take DR. The 
appeal hearing covered essentially the same issues, and the Board of Appeals denied the 
appeal.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 21, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission also met this week. One item to note is that this 
Commission will receive the same presentation on the Citywide Historic Resource Survey in 
the near future.  
 
And at the Board of Supervisors, no report.