4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and took action on two items that maybe of 
interest to the Commission. The Board of Appeals held their election of officers, although 
they can never replace their previous president, Frank Fung, they elected Rick Swig to the 
office of President and Ann Lazarus to the office of Vice President. The Board heard the 
appeal of a Letter of Determination for 1145 Polk Street. At issuance this appeal was the 
appropriate fee methodology for the project which received its site permit in 2018. Last 
year, the MOHCD and Planning worked together to modify the fee methodology for 
payment of the in-lieu fee for the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Program, formed a per 
unit fee to a per square foot fee. This change became effective on January 1st of this year to 
implement this discreet change in a fair, consistent, and efficient manner. The City tied the 
methodology to the site permit issuance date, which is when fees are assessed to a project 
under the Planning and Building codes. For projects with a site permit issuance date before 
January 1st, 2019, the old methodology applies. For site permits issued after this date, the 
new methodology applies. The project was originally authorized with on-site BMR units; 
however, the project sponsor sought the Letter of Determination to allow them to pay the 
fee using the new methodology, which would have reduced their fee from approximately 
$3.4 million to $2.1 million. The Zoning Administrator found that the change would 
require Planning Commission approval and that the old fee methodology would be 
required based upon the rules adopted by the City to implement this change. The Board 
voted unanimously to uphold the Zoning Administrator's determination.  
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday, and I think the one item that 
may be of interest to the Commission was 770 Woolsey. There was a petition from a 
neighborhood organization to add the 2-acre site just below McLaren Park. It was the old 
nurseries for flowers, I believe, way back in the day, to the Landmark Work Program. The 
Commission is down -- the Historic Preservation Commission is actually down to five 
Commissioners. Commissioners Johnck and Wolfram are no longer with that commission 
and their seats have yet to be replaced. Commission President Hyland actually had to 
recuse himself, so they were down to four commissioners to consider the matter and 
needed a unanimous vote. A motion to not add it to the work program failed 3-1 with 
Commissioner Matsuda voting against and there was no alternate motion to continue or 
otherwise. And so, that application failed in front of the Historic Preservation Commission.   
 
Aaron Starr: 
Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. First in the Land Use Committee agenda was 
Supervisor Mandelman's ordinance that proposes to modify the buildable envelope for 
buildings in our districts. Commissioners, you heard this item on April 11th and 
recommended approval with modifications. As reported last week at the July 8th Land Use 

San Francisco Planning Commission