5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon commissioners. I understand we’ve all heard the news and you've heard 
my news. So. I will just reiterate and let you know that I have indeed, the rumors are true, I 
have indeed decided to retire from my position in a few months. I will be here until the end 
of February. And I just wanted to say, first, to everyone and members of the public 
involved in these hearings and to the commissioners, thank you so much for all of your 
support over the years. There will be plenty of time for discussion, for further iteration, but 
I do want to invite the commissioners, and I know staff would appreciate this too, to have 
conversations over the next six months about the direction of the Department - how we 
are doing, what we should be doing differently? And I know staff will appreciate that as 
would I and it would be great to hear how you think about how we're doing, and what 
should change in the future. So, I will simply say, as I’ve said in the media, it has been my 
great honor to be in this position, and I look forward to the next six months and wrapping 
this up. And also seeing how the Department and the City move forward in the future. My 
sincere thanks to all of you.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 5, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 11 
 
 
Vice President Koppel: 
Thank you. On behalf of the commission, Director Rahaim, in my brief three years on the 
Commission, I've just experienced nothing but good guidance, and direction from you at 
all times, and I am very jealous of you. I'm already counting my days to retirement. I have a 
way to go but I am already counting them, so I am jealous, but well-deserved. And I think, 
one simple thing as an example, is this skyline is very representative of what you have 
done for the City, and all types of industries and community groups. So, I wanted to say 
thank you. I will give the microphone to other commissioners just in a second. I wanted to 
let the members of the public, and the staff know, that we are going to have an actual 
hearing calendared for the September 19th, where members of the public, and also 
members of the staff will be able to chime in and put their two cents in as to what they 
would like to see, in the new director. President Melgar will be taking things from here on 
out. She will be here later. As far as we are concerned, as of now, there will be a hearing on 
the 19th with public comment available.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Rahaim, I hope that you will roll up your sleeves for the next six months and give 
you everything you can. You have made great contributions, and it has been a wonderful 
time. And for me, it is particularly sad, because I was on the committee that I commended 
you to our mayor at that time. So, it sounds like forever, and it sounds like a day. But I will 
not say goodbye, because I think we will be engaged in a lot of productive work between 
now and then.   
 
Commissioner Johnson:   
I just want to add my deep thanks to you for your leadership, for your guidance, for your 
collaborative nature, and really just handling so much of what we, the day in and the day 
out of what we do with grace. I just have learned so much from you, and continue to be 
inspired by you, and look forward to what we accomplish over the next six months. And 
also, just congratulations for everything that is ahead. I'm really happy for you.   
 
Commissioner Fung: 
I don't know why you are retiring, you are younger than I am. Congratulations and we 
hope you enjoy your next life.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, I think I was quoted once in some press somewhere saying you are the right man for 
the right time for this city. I think you are going to be missed, you have ushered in an 
incredible amount of change with grace and integrity. And I was really impressed when 
you rolled up your sleeves to get the Mission Action Plan 2020 going. You took the lead on 
that, that just really shows the kind of person you are and how much you care about the 
city. And by the way, my husband was sitting there this morning, reading about your 
retirement, and he said to me, “What is wrong with you? You have three more years to go 
and here the Director beat you to Palm Springs”. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Seeing nothing further, I will simply just say congratulations, John.   
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 5, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Good afternoon commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. The Board is 
back in session. For the first hearing, they finished up some old business, passing on 
second read, the Mayor's Small Business Streamlining Ordinance, and Supervisor 
Mandelman’s Building Standard Ordinance. One ordinance that was supposed to be up for 
second read but was re- referred back to the Land Use Committee was the conditional use 
authorization requirement for employee cafeterias. Getting their first read was the 
Chinatown Mixed-Use District Reorganization as part of the code reorganization project. 
And the Hearst Building Ordinance, also passed its first read. The appeal for 655 4th Street 
was withdrawn.  
 
For introduction, Supervisor Mandelman introduced interim controls that would require 
conditional use authorization for the Conversion of Residential Care Facilities. As these are 
interim controls, they will not come to the Planning Commission for your review and 
comment. However, any permanent controls will and that concludes my report. Thank you.