10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
One more.  Commissioners, on behalf of the Department, thank you for everything you've 
done. And I just will say, and we can say more next week, two things, one is, I'm looking 
forward to working with you in your new role. I think it would be great to have you there 
and to have that connection and your knowledge from here and working with you there. 
And secondly, we need to have an appropriate sendoff for the next couple of weeks. So, 
we’ll all start thinking about that. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Fong:    
We're due yeah.   
 
Commissioner Richards:    
We’re due. We’re due. 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
180003 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 460 Arguello Boulevard (aka 
Theodore Roosevelt Middle School). Sponsor: HPC. Staff: Ferguson. Item 1  
 
• 
180005 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2728 Bryant Street (aka Sunshine 
School). Sponsor: HPC. Staff: Ferguson. Item 2  
 
First on the land use agenda was the Landmark designations for the Sunshine School and 
the Theodore Roosevelt Middle School. These items were called together.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 14, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 16 
 
Sunshine School was constructed in 1937 with funds from the Public Works 
Administration. It is significant as the first public school specifically designed for children 
with disabilities built west of the Rockies. It was designed in the Spanish Colonial Revival 
style with Art Deco and Moorish accents. Perhaps more significantly, it has a floorplan 
devised to combine two specialized schools into one campus, one for disabled children 
and one for chronically ill children.  
 
Theodore Roosevelt Middle School was constructed in 1930 and is architecturally 
significant as San Francisco’s only Dutch/German Expressionist style building designed by 
master architect Timothy Pflueger. It also has three important New Deal murals.  
 
The HPC initiated designation October 18, 2017 and unanimously recommended landmark 
designation on December 6, 2017.  
 
During the land use hearing, representatives from the SFUSD asked for a continuance to 
give the new SFUSD board members a chance to review the landmark designations. Other 
Public commenters were in favor of the landmark designation and included many people 
from the preservation community.  
 
Supervisor Peskin stated that landmark designation of public schools would be honorific, 
as the Planning Department does not review alterations to schools. Staff also affirmed that 
planning review of alterations is usually limited to informational presentation at the HPC.  
 
The Committee then voted unanimously to recommend the Ordinance to the Full Board.  
 
• 
181045 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 170 Valencia Street. Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: 
Butkus.  
 
Last on the Land Use agenda was the rezoning for 170 Valencia Street. The subject 
property has split zoning with the NCT-3 zoning at the front of the building and RTO at the 
rear. This ordinance would make the entire building zoned NCT-3. Commissioners, you 
heard his item on January 17 and voted to recommend approval. At the land use hearing 
there was no public comment and no significant comments from the Committee 
members. The item was sent to the full board with a positive recommendation.  
 
Full Board  
• 
181175 Planning Code- Landmark Designation – 22 Beaver Street (Benedict-Gieling 
House). Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Ferguson. PASSED Second Read.  
 
• 
181238 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization – 3637-3657 Sacramento 
Street. Items 5-7. Staff: Starr/Woods.  
 
Then Board considered the CU appeal for 3637 Sacramento Street. Last week the Board 
voted to uphold the Environmental determination and continued the CU appeal for one 
week to finalize agreed upon conditions of approval.  
 
At the hearing, Supervisor Stefani moved to overturn the CU and grant a new CU that 
includes the conditions imposed by the Planning Commission in addition to several new 
construction-activity related conditions and design modifications. The design 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 14, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 16 
 
modifications are intended to reduce the bulk of the building by proving a 3’ setback at 
either end of the fourth floor and modify the design to be more in keeping with 
neighborhood character. This passed unanimously.  
 
• 
190093 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Community Plan Evaluation - 1052-1060 
Folsom Street and 190-194 Russ Street. Continued to April 9, 2019  
 
• 
190097 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization - Proposed Project at 1052-
1060 Folsom Street and 190-194 Russ Street. Continued to April 9, 2019