6. 
Director’s Announcements 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 5, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, I just have one item to talk to you about. It relates to a project that you 
heard of on the October 24th. At that hearing you heard an update of approved conditional 
use allowing a patio use for a restaurant called Birba on 458 Grove Street.  As you recall, 
the patio use had been approved a year ago to operate until 10 pm. At the hearing, the 
neighbor had filed a complaint with Enforcement and had expressed a concern about the 
noise level of the restaurant. And he had filed a complaint with the Department as well. 
We did go out and look at that. At the point we went out, we were unable to verify that 
there was any violation. So as for context, you had heard this item immediately after the 
Ocean Avenue item and it was late in the day. And there was a little bit of -- staff wasn't 
quite clear about the direction that, to be honest, that we were being given. So our 
intention at this point is to proceed with the complaint, do further enforcement analysis to 
see if there is a problem there and then get back to you to see if we do find a problem at 
this point. If you would like further hearing on it, we can do it at that time but our 
recommendation now is to allow us to do a little bit more analysis to go out there in the 
evenings to see if there's a problem and then get back to you then. So with that, I have no 
other announcements today. Thank you.   
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There was no Historic Preservation Commission hearing yesterday. And there is no Board 
of Supervisor’s report. So there is, I did receive a report from the Assistant Zoning 
Administrator Sanchez. The Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered three 
items that may be of interest to the Planning Commission.  
 
Item 1, 610 El Camino Del Mar, the Board heard the appeal of the Commission’s denial of 
building permit for a deck at the rear at this property. As noted in past summaries the 
Board continued this item several times to allow the parties additional time to meet to 
resolve their differences. Unfortunately, the parties were not able to come to a resolution. 
In the DR Action memo for this project, the Commission based their denial on a previous 
private agreement between the parties for a similar proposal dating back to 2011. The 
Board voted unanimously to overturn the denial and approve the project, noting the staff 
DR analysis found the project to be compliant with the Planning Code and Residential 
Design Guidelines. The Board also noted that the City does not enforce private agreements 
and the Planning Commission's decision lacked any other basis for their action. 
 
Item 2, 3426-3432 22nd Street, the Board heard the appeal of DBI's revocation of nine 
building permits associated with the subject property. The Board found that the project 
sponsor violated Building and Planning Codes by providing inaccurate plans and 
exceeding the scope of work on the subject permits, including work that will require a 
variance to legalize. However, the Board also question whether the permit should have 
been suspended rather than revoked. The Board continued the item to March 18th to allow 
time for the project sponsor to work with DBI and Planning to provide complete and 
correct plans and establish a path forward to bring the property into compliance.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 5, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
Item 3, annual report, lastly, the Board heard and adopted their annual report and the 
Department will forward the final version of the report to the Commission when it 
becomes available.