6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
No new announcements except to say that I’ll talk to Ms. Rodgers about getting that 
hearing scheduled for SB 330. Thank you.  
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Diego Sanchez: 
Hi, Diego Sanchez with department staff. Aaron Starr typically provides the summary of 
board activities, he is at another hearing at this moment, so I will provide you with the 
summary for this week. With that said, let's get into it. At Monday’s Land Use Committee 
Meeting, there were four items of particular interest. The first is the landmark designation 
of 524 Union Street. 524 Union Street is a significant landmark as one of the earliest LGBTQ 
bars that is associated with the development of LGBTQ communities in San Francisco. It is 
also significant for its association with the owner, Dante Benedetti, who became one of the 
people on the front lines in the fight for LGBTQ civil rights in the San Francisco in the 
1950’s. The property owner submitted the final landmark designation report August 2018. 
The HPC initiated designation on September 5, 2018 and unanimously recommended 
landmark designation to the Board of Supervisors on October 17, 2018. At Monday’s 
meeting, the Land Use committee forwarded the landmark designation to the full board 
with a positive recommendation.  
 
Next on the agenda, the Committee heard the original and duplicated ADU new 
construction ordinance, introduced by Supervisor Safai. This would allow ADUs and new 
construction and bring our local program into compliance with the state, with state law. 
This was first heard at Land Use on May 20th and continued to June 3rd, so the proposed 
amendments could be added. For the original ordinance, Supervisor Safai incorporated the 
amendments recommended by you, the Planning Commission. The duplicated file has also 
added the following amendments, for waiver ADUs, it’s the first one is removing the 
requirement of an existing rental unit on the property to enter into a regulatory agreement 
or Costa Hawkins agreement. The second amendment for waiver ADUs, was removing the 
reference to the administrative code's definition of a rental unit. For the no waiver ADUs, 
the amendment was ADUs in new construction, single family home shall not be less than 
50% of the proposed primary dwelling unit size. Public comments were in general support 
of ADUs, but had concerns about protecting tenant services, the overall length of the ADU 
review process and support for imposing rent control on ADUs and new construction.  
At the end of the hearing, the original ordinance was moved to be heard at the full board 
on June 11th without objection. The duplicated ordinance will be rereferred to the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 6, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
Planning department for Planning Commission review. This item is tentatively scheduled 
for the July 18th Planning Commission hearing.  
 
Next, the Land Use committee heard the Regional Commercial and Folsom Street NCD, Arts 
Activities and Nighttime Entertainment ordinance. Commissioners, you heard this 
ordinance on February 21st, two weeks after the HPC heard this on February 6th. This 
ordinance proposes to allow arts activities at the first and second floors in landmark 
designated buildings per Article 10, certain buildings designated in Article 11, and also 
located within the extended Preservation district, or in buildings listed in or determined 
individually eligible for the National Register of Historic Places or the California Register of 
Historic Places.  
 
At the Planning Commission on February 21st, you moved to approve the ordinance with 
the following modifications. First was to allow arts activities in every property within the 
RCD district, second was to conditionally permit nighttime entertainment uses within RCD 
zoned historic buildings including those that contribute to historic district, and third to 
require preservation, rehabilitation, and maintenance plan for use within the Folsom 
Street NCT and the RCD districts. On March 5th, the legislative sponsor, Supervisor Haney, 
submitted -- substituted the ordinance to include those recommended modifications at 
Monday’s Land Use Committee meeting. He also amended the substitute ordinance to 
principally permit nighttime entertainment uses at the property at 1401 Howard Street at 
the corner of Ninth Street. During public comment, members of the public spoke to the 
benefit of increasing flexibility and allowed uses that the ordinance proposes. After public 
comment, the Land Use Committee voted unanimously to send the ordinance to the full 
Board of Supervisors with a positive recommendation.  
 
Lastly, the committee considered Supervisor Peskin's proposed inter-moratorium on 
entertainment uses in the One Maritime Plaza Area. The One Maritime Plaza Area is 
bounded by Jackson Street to the north, Sacramento to the south, Drumm to the east and 
Samsone to the west. The inter-moratorium would prohibit the change of use away from a 
nighttime entertainment use to any other use, as well as prohibit any private clubs in this 
One Maritime plaza area. The inter zoning moratorium only remains in effect for 45 days, 
unless the board extends it, and the extension cannot last for more than 18 months. Public 
commenters mentioned that the Punchline Comedy Club, which is within the area is vital 
to San Francisco’s comedy scene, has served as a town incubator, and has hosted 
comedians of all talent levels. Now I am on the last page.  
 
In this context, the City should do what it can to keep the Punchline Comedy Club open. 
After public comment, the Land Use Committee voted unanimously to recommend the 
inter zoning moratorium as a committee report to the full Board of Supervisors. 
Commissioners, on Tuesday, the full Board of Supervisors considered two items of 
particular interest. The first was -- the first item was an ordinance amending the 
administrative code to allow applications for Mills Act contracts for historic properties to 
be filed concurrently with applications for designations of the same property. This item 
passed on its first read, and lastly, the full board passed by unanimous vote, the inter-
moratorium on entertainment uses in the One Maritime Plaza Area. That concludes the 
summary board activities for the week. Thank you. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 6, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12