6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. First on the 
Land Use agenda was the ordinance to include a reference to the Polk-Pacific Design 
Guidelines in the Planning Code. This ordinance was originally initiated by the Planning 
Commission, but once it was transmitted to the Board, Supervisor Peskin took over 
sponsorship. Commissioners, you heard this item on January 17th and voted to recommend 
approval. At the Land Use Committee, Robin Tucker and our own Commissioner Moore 
spoke during public comment and applauded the efforts of the Planning Department and 
community members who engaged in formulating the guidelines. Supervisor Peskin also 
spoke highly of the process that created the guidelines as well as the guidelines 
themselves. Land Use Committee voted to recommend the item to the Full Board 
unanimously.  
 
Next the Committee heard an amended version of the CU requirement for Employees 
Cafeterias Ordinance. You originally heard this in October of 2018 where you 
recommended disapproval and again on March 7th 2019, where there was no successful 
motion to approve or continue the item resulting in a de facto disapproval. At Monday’s 
hearing, Supervisor Safai, the legislative sponsor, provided background on the genesis of 
the ordinance. He also outlined his proposed amendments which include one, expanding 
the CU requirement to all office uses, not just general office use; add location on operating 
conditions that differentiate between break rooms and cafeterias with full-service 
kitchens; add location operating conditions that exempt certain cafeterias from the CU 
requirement if they are at the first story; open to the public, designed to the standards for 
active use; and provide meals that are not majority subsidized. Add grandfathering 
provision and add the conditional use consideration for cafeterias subject to conditional 
use. Many of these were proposed by staff to the Planning Commission. Supervisor Peskin 
proposed amending the grandfathering clause to July 1st 2019. Only one member of the 
public spoke during public comment. The speaker was a representative of the SF Chamber 
of Commerce who is against the CU requirement, fearing that it would make business less 
likely to locate within San Francisco.  After public comment, the Land Use Committee 

San Francisco Planning Commission