8. 
Director’s Announcements 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 12, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, no new announcement except if I may, in response to President Medgar’s 
request. I think it would be a good discussion to have and if there’s time I would like to do it 
before I step down. So, I will see if we can make that happen.  I’m not sure that we will have 
a lot of data for you, but at least have that discussion with you guys. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation 
Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There is no report from the Board of Appeals and there was no Historic Preservation 
Commission hearing yesterday.   
 
Aaron Starr: 
First on the Land Use agenda was Supervisor Fewer’s trailing ordinance that would require 
at least half of residential units and educator housing projects to have two or more rooms. 
This change would eliminate the requirement that educator housing projects have a 
minimum number of three bedroom units. You heard this item on November 21st and voted 
to recommend approval. Public comment came from representatives of the Council of 
Community Housing Organizations and SF HAC who were in support of the proposed 
ordinance. The committee voted unanimously to forward this item with recommendations 
to the full board as a committee report.  
 
Next was Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would expand the interim controls that 
required changes of use from residential care facilities to another use to obtain conditional 
use authorization. this resolution would expand the requirement to unauthorize residential 
care facilities as well as authorized residential care facilities. As these are interim controls, 
they were not heard before the Planning Commission. The Committee voted to forward this 
item to the full board with a positive recommendation as a committee report.  
 
The Committee then considered the Zoning Map and Planning Code Amendments and the 
Development Agreement for 2000 Marin Street, also known as the Flower Mart. Planning 
staff and OEWD both had extensive presentations on this item. During staff’s presentation, 
Supervisor Peskin asked several clarifying questions and made several statements about the 
project and the importance of ensuring that this 100 year old institution remain in San 
Francisco. Public comment period for this item was long and most speakers expressed 
concern over the future of the Flower Mart and its continued presence in San Francisco. 
Commenters also expressed concerns over how suitable the redeveloped sight would be for 
the Flower Mart and expressed a desire to see it in a different location.  Supervisor Haney 
proposed amendments to the ordinance that would strengthen the language about the 
developer incurring the cost to relocate the Flower Mart, which were accepted unanimously. 
In the end, both the ordinances were forwarded  to the full board with no recommendation.  
 
Lastly, the committee considered the ordinance that resulted from the settlement for the 
Academy of Art University. Commissioners, you heard this item on November 21st and voted 
to recommend approval. The Land Use hearing was brief with presentations from Planning 
staff and DBI. There were two speakers during public comment who spoke on various 
concerns relating to the proposed settlement. Supervisor Peskin complemented Planning 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 12, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
staff and their work on this item and the committee then forwarded the item to the full 
board without recommendation to the January 7th hearing date.  
 
At the full board this week, Supervisor Fewer’s Educator Housing ordinance passed its first 
read. An annual report on Job Growth and Housing Production, which is an amendment to 
the Administrative Code sponsored by Supervisor Mar passed its first read and the Interim 
Controls for Residential Care Facilities was adopted.