7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director:   
Thanks, Jonas. Good afternoon Commissioners. I was also going to mention the new 
version of SB50. As I understand it is essentially has been emerge with SB4 and the two 
senators have combined efforts and as I understand that some of the provisions of SB50 
only apply to large cities above half a million or 600,000 I think. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
600,000. 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director:   
Bottom line is we’ll get more information to you. I also have this evening I will be 
attending the legislative committee meeting of the MTC and ABAG and those two bills and 
this revised bill will be on the agenda this evening. So, if you want to check in on that you 
can certainly do that as well. But we’ll, I’ll try to bring you information when we get out of 
that meeting as well. That concludes my thoughts thank you. 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
Yeah. I think it's counties with populations over 600,000, so that would exempt Marin and 
Sonoma. And I think the moniker I heard recently that it's a NIMBY bill - Not In McGuire's 
Back Yard.   
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
190249 Development Agreement - SYTS Investments, LLC - 915 Cayuga Avenue. 
Sponsor: Safai. Staff: Flores. Item 3  
• 
190250 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Cayuga/Alemany Special Use District. Sponsor: 
Safai. Staff: Flores. Item 4  
• 
190251 Planning Code - Zoning Map Amendment. Sponsor: Safai. Staff: Flores.  
 
At Monday’s Land Use hearing the Committee considered the proposed Development 
Agreement and Planning and Zoning Map amendments for 915 Cayuga. The proposed 
development would construct a 5-story residential building with 116 units, 50% of which 
would be affordable. Commissioners, you heard this item on April 11 of this year and voted 
unanimously to approve.  
 
At the land use hearing, several speakers came out in favor of the proposed project, some 
of whom also gave testimony at the Commission hearing. There was also at least one 
speaker who expressed concern about the project and its lack of parking. The Committee 
members’ comments were resoundingly in favor of the proposed project and wasted no 
time in voting to recommend this item to the Full Board.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission