5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 181153 Planning Code - Regional Commercial and Folsom Street Neighborhood 
Commercial Transit Districts, Arts Activities and Nighttime Entertainment Uses. 
Sponsor: Haney. Staff: D. Sanchez  
 
This week, the Land Use committee heard Supervisor Haney’s ordinance that amends Arts 
and Entertainment use controls in the RCD and Folsom Street NCD. The Ordinance 
originally proposed to make all Arts Activities and Nighttime Entertainment as principally 
permitted uses in historic buildings in the RCD zoning district. This Ordinance was heard at 
the HPC on February 6, and then at Planning Commission on February 21. Both 
Commissions recommended approval with modification. Those modifications include:  
 
1. Allow Arts Activities throughout the RCD district.  
2. Conditionally permit Nighttime Entertainment uses within the RCD in historic 
buildings, including those that contribute to a historic district.  
3. Require a Preservation, Rehabilitation and Maintenance Plan for buildings with 
those uses within the Folsom Street NCT and RCD districts.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 16, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
On March 5, Supervisor Haney introduced a substitute version of the Ordinance that 
included the Commissions’ recommended modifications.  
 
At the Land Use hearing, public comment centered around not imposing a CU requirement 
for nighttime entertainment uses in historic buildings in the RCD district. After public 
comment, Supervisor Peskin noted that he was in favor of the Commissions’ 
recommendation to require CU, noting the importance of CU for uses like nighttime 
entertainment near residentially zoned areas. Seeking to do more outreach, Supervisor 
Haney then moved to continue the hearing until June 3.  
 
Full Board  
• No Planning Department Items  
 
Introductions  
• BF TBD. Jobs-Housing Linkage Fee Increase. Sponsor: Haney. Staff: TBD  
 
Increase fee from roughly $28 per square foot to $38.  
 
• BF TBD. Office of Racial Equity for San Francisco. Sponsors: Fewer and Brown. Staff: Not 
Staffed.  
 
The new Office will collect data, shape policy, and inform legislation to address San 
Francisco’s growing racial inequities. 
 
 
Commissioner Richards:   
One quick question, Mr. Starr. The impact fees on jobs versus houses, do you have any idea 
on the upper limit on the Nexus Study was for that?   
 
Aaron Starr: 
I don't. We’re still looking at it. I think it is in the realm of what it is supposed to be but it 
will be coming to you for a vote.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
On behalf of Mr. Sanchez, the Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered three 
items that may be of interest to the Planning Commission. 1621 Diamond Street and 440 
Molimo Drive, both of these projects proposed additions to single family dwellings that 
were heard as discretionary reviews by this Commission last year. The Commission did not 
take DR in either case. While separate projects and appeals, both cases focused on 
building-related concerns about potential impacts on foundations and seismic safety. For 
1621 Diamond Street, the Board granted the appeal and conditioned the permit to require 
a survey and monitoring to ensure that the work would not impact the adjacent property 
owner. For 440 Molimo Drive, the Board found that the project would not have impacts 
because it did not propose any foundation work and denied the appeal. The Board also 
heard an appeal of a notice of violation for the Espetus Restaurant at 1686 Market Street. 
The notice of violation found that the Espetus violated conditions of approval from a 2009 
Conditional Use Authorization that required them to control odors associated with the use. 
All parties agreed that the property was in violation and that a new exhaust system was 
required. While it took some time, the property owner has submitted a building permit 
application to install mechanical equipment to abate the violation. The Department is 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 16, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 8 
 
processing this application, and it should be ready for issuance shortly. The Board voted 
unanimously to uphold the notice of violation and they will require the restaurant to 
complete installation of the mechanical equipment within 12 weeks of permit issuance. If 
they do not comply with this deadline, they will be assessed accrued penalties of 
approximately $21,000.  
 
I don't see our Preservation Coordinator. We did have a Historic Preservation Commission 
meeting yesterday where they approved the temporary art installation in front of the main 
public library here on behalf of the Exploratorium. They approved some legacy business 
applications and heard their Landmark Designation and Cultural Heritage Work Program 
quarterly reports.