8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, good afternoon. Two things today. First, I wanted to introduce you to the 
summer interns who are here in the audience. I wanted to ask them to all stand up for a 
couple of minutes. We have a total -- it's a 12-week program that started on June 3rd and 
end at the end of August. There are a total of 23 interns this summer, which includes high 
school interns from the city's Youth Works program. I just wanted to tell you about some of 
the projects they're working on. They’re working on everything from PDR implementation 
guidelines to the Better Roofs Ordinance, Climate Resiliency Programming, Environmental 
Justice Policies in the General Plan, the Southeast Mobility Strategy Guidelines For Public -- 
for POPOS, guidelines for and template for institutional master plans, and the Housing 
Affordability Strategy, the Women’s Rights Historic Context Statement and the Citywide 
Historic Survey. As you know, as part of the 12-week program, each intern is paired with a 
planner who mentors their work. There are also weekly discussions, site visits and special 
presentations led by staff members. In the final week, the interns will present their work to 
staff during a weeklong noontime lecture series. The Department is very appreciative of all 
the work and we are very excited about the program. And as you know, many of our staff 
started as interns with the Department, so we think it's a great training ground for the 
department and we get some really great work for the Department as a result. So, we 
welcome you all to the Department.  
 
Secondly, Commissioners, I have a bitter sweet announcement. I think, as you know, 
Andrea Green is leaving the Department. Tomorrow is her last day. Andrea's been with the 
Department for 24 years, and for fifteen of those, the last fifteen of those years has been 
the Executive Assistant to the Director. So, which means that she has been my assistant for 
the entire time I've been here. We will miss her greatly. Andrea has become the kind of 
heart and soul of the department in so many ways. And I think one of the really great 
assets that she has brought to the Department is her ability to kind of treat everyone with 
equal respect and kindness no matter who they are, no matter how upset they are. And 
she is one of the most important, kind of front doors to the Department, if you will, where 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 27, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 14 
 
she is the face of the Department and has really kind of helped us in that our messaging 
and bringing a positive face forward. So, I will personally miss her terribly, and I know the 
Department will, and I know you will. And I just want to honor her. I will say, might 
reiterate a thanks to Supervisor Peskin who honored her at the Board of Supervisors on 
Tuesday. The board signed a commendation in her honor on Tuesday which was quite 
lovely. But we will miss her greatly, and Andrea, I'd love you to come up and say a few 
words.  
 
Andrea Green: 
First, I would like to say thank you so much. Thank you, John, it's been quite a wonderful 
pleasure working with you. And I mean that from the bottom of my heart. I'm not going to 
cry, because I am a cry baby, but I’m not going to cry. I'm going to fight them back. But 
thanks to all that I've worked with at the Commission, the staff, and everyone. It's been a 
long road, but a fun road. It's had its ups and downs, but the ups have been greater than 
the downs, so I really appreciate working with all of you. I’ve been knowing Commissioner 
Hillis from way back. City attorney, Kate, we go way back, so I appreciate all of you. My 
heart will be with the Department, which is the best department in the City and County of 
San Francisco, so thank you so much, and I'll miss you -- and I won't be a stranger, I 
promise. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Fung:    
Andrea, we will miss you. We wish you the best, and you've just taken away one of the 
main reasons for me to visit the Department.   
 
Commissioner Richards:    
I won't be able to be there tomorrow tonight, however, I have very fond memories when I 
was on that side of the aisle. As a pipsqueak activist, you treated me so well and you 
treated me with respect, and I actually really appreciate what you did.  Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Hillis:    
Yeah thank you very much. It's been great knowing you all these years, and you really kind 
of our synonymous with the Department. I can’t quite imagine the Planning Department 
without you. I never really liked calling John Rahaim or Dean Makras before, but it was, I 
did it because I got to talk to you.  So, thank you for everything. It’s been great working 
with you and knowing you. Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Andrea can’t we convince you to stay? You’re moving into a new building, new desk, new 
everything. Thank you for everything. You are wonderful. I appreciate knowing you.   
 
Vice President Koppel:    
Yeah in behalf of all of us up here, thank you for everything and congratulations. Well 
deserved.   
 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 27, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 14 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
 
Hi good afternoon Commissioners.  Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. First on the 
Land Use agenda this week was the Mayor and Supervisor Brown’s Small Business 
Streamlining ordinance. This ordinance with among other things expand the types of 
liquor licenses allowed within a bar use, reduce the quarter mile buffer around limited 
non-conforming commercial uses to 300 feet. Amend the definition of general 
entertainment to include amusement game arcades. Allow outdoor activity areas to 
operate between 6 am and 10 pm as of right.  Commissioners, you heard this item on 
March 7th and voted to approve with modifications. Your proposed modifications was to 
retain the Conditional Use Authorization for outdoor activity areas associated with a bar 
use. During the hearing, there was significant debate around whether the resident – or 
restricted use districts in the city should retain their quarter mile buffers for LCU use and 
LCC use.  Supervisor Peskin recommended retaining the core amount of buffer for the 
RUDs and going to the individual communities to let them decide whether to retain the 
buffers. Many members of the public came to speak in favor of the legislation, along with a 
few neighbors, neighborhood advocates who came to speak in opposition. Supervisor 
Peskin submitted his proposed amendments in writing to the committee and asked that 
they be considered. Department has not received a copy of those amendments yet. The 
committee voted to continue the item with all proposed amendments submitted at the 
hearing by Supervisor Brown. Included and with the request for the committee to consider 
the additional amendments submitted by Supervisor Peskin at the following hearing on 
July 8th.  
 
 
Next, the committee considered Supervisor Mandelman's ordinance amending Building 
Standards. You heard this item on April 11th and recommended approve with 
modifications. Without public comment, Chair Peskin moved that this ordinance be 
continued to the Land Use committee on July 8th of this year.  
 
The Full Board only had one planning item this week, which was the CEQA appeal for the 
SAFE Navigation Center at Seawall Lot 330, which would include 200 beds to serve the 
city's homeless community. While the Planning Commission did not hear this item, the 
Port Commission did and unanimously approved the MOU between the Port and HSA on 
April 23rd of this year. The appellants raised CEQA issues with regards to contaminated soil, 
lack of review by Waterfront Design Advisory Committee, adequate emergency services, 
and impacts on noise and transportation. Non-CEQA issues were also raised during the – 
were also raised when they regarded the state lands commission, fair market value for the 
property and merits of the project. Public comments in support of the appeal were 
primarily non-CEQA comments related to the location size, use, level of public outreach 
and the way the project was approved. The few CEQA comments were about 
contaminated soils and emergency services. Public comments in opposition to the appeal 
were primarily non-CEQA and related to the need for homeless shelters and services. 
Supervisor Haney was the only member of the Board who asked questions, most of which 
were aimed at Jeff Kositsky, the director of the Department of Homelessness and 
Supportive Housing, Elaine Forbes, the Executive Director of the Port, and Rod Iwashita, 
the Port's Chief Harbor Engineer. Questions related to – or directed to Planning about the 
level of environmental review that had occurred at the other navigation centers and what 
the Waterfront Special Use District 3 requires. Supervisor Haney did not believe the 
comments raised by the appellant were related to CEQA, and therefore made a motion to 
deny the appeal and uphold the Department CEQA determination. Those passed 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 27, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 14 
 
unanimously with Supervisor Peskin and Ronen absent. And finally, I just wanted to let you 
know that I had been reviewing the hearing from last week. I had a long-planned family 
vacation, so I couldn't be here, but I did want to be here, not necessarily for the four or five-
hour hearing, but I wanted to be there to support Audrey, who did spend a tremendous 
time working on it, and I wanted to support her in that, so thank you.