6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
No new announcements except to say that I’ll talk to Ms. Rodgers about getting that 
hearing scheduled for SB 330. Thank you.  
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Diego Sanchez: 
Hi, Diego Sanchez with department staff. Aaron Starr typically provides the summary of 
board activities, he is at another hearing at this moment, so I will provide you with the 
summary for this week. With that said, let's get into it. At Monday’s Land Use Committee 
Meeting, there were four items of particular interest. The first is the landmark designation 
of 524 Union Street. 524 Union Street is a significant landmark as one of the earliest LGBTQ 
bars that is associated with the development of LGBTQ communities in San Francisco. It is 
also significant for its association with the owner, Dante Benedetti, who became one of the 
people on the front lines in the fight for LGBTQ civil rights in the San Francisco in the 
1950’s. The property owner submitted the final landmark designation report August 2018. 
The HPC initiated designation on September 5, 2018 and unanimously recommended 
landmark designation to the Board of Supervisors on October 17, 2018. At Monday’s 
meeting, the Land Use committee forwarded the landmark designation to the full board 
with a positive recommendation.  
 
Next on the agenda, the Committee heard the original and duplicated ADU new 
construction ordinance, introduced by Supervisor Safai. This would allow ADUs and new 
construction and bring our local program into compliance with the state, with state law. 
This was first heard at Land Use on May 20th and continued to June 3rd, so the proposed 
amendments could be added. For the original ordinance, Supervisor Safai incorporated the 
amendments recommended by you, the Planning Commission. The duplicated file has also 
added the following amendments, for waiver ADUs, it’s the first one is removing the 
requirement of an existing rental unit on the property to enter into a regulatory agreement 
or Costa Hawkins agreement. The second amendment for waiver ADUs, was removing the 
reference to the administrative code's definition of a rental unit. For the no waiver ADUs, 
the amendment was ADUs in new construction, single family home shall not be less than 
50% of the proposed primary dwelling unit size. Public comments were in general support 
of ADUs, but had concerns about protecting tenant services, the overall length of the ADU 
review process and support for imposing rent control on ADUs and new construction.  
At the end of the hearing, the original ordinance was moved to be heard at the full board 
on June 11th without objection. The duplicated ordinance will be rereferred to the 

San Francisco Planning Commission