10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 181175 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 22 Beaver Street (Benedict-Gieling 
House). Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Ferguson.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 31, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
 
At land use this week, the Committee heard the Landmark designation for 22 Beaver 
Street, known as the Benedict-Gieling House. According to the designation report, the 
house “is an exceedingly rare example of a suburban Italianate villa in San Francisco. Its 
exterior, which features ornament on three elevations, was clearly designed to be seen “in 
the round.” This, combined with its park-like setting, recall a time when Duboce Triangle 
was a genteel estate exurb of San Francisco.  
 
At the hearing Staff gave a presentation on the landmark. Our own Commissioner 
Richards, and HPC Commissioner Christopher Ver Planck spoke in favor of the designation 
during public comment. The Committee then voted to forward the item to the Full Board 
with recommendation.  
 
Full Board  
• 181046 Planning Code - HOME-SF Project Authorization. Sponsor: Safai. Staff: Ikezoe. 
PASSED Second Read  
 
• 181061 Planning Code - Conversion of Medical Cannabis Dispensary Uses to Cannabis 
Retail Uses. Sponsor: Office of Cannabis. Staff: Christensen. PASSED Second Read  
 
• 181111 General Plan Amendment - Downtown Area Plan - 1650, 1660, 1670 and 1680 
Mission Street. Sponsor: Dept. of Real Estate. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read  
 
• 181112 General Plan Amendment - Market and Octavia Area Plan - 1650, 1660, 1670 and 
1680 Mission Street. Sponsor: Dept. of Real Estate. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read  
 
• 180474 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezoning 1650-1680 Mission Street. Sponsor: Dept. 
of Real Estate. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read  
 
• 180916 Planning, Administrative Codes - Zoning Controls and Fees in the C-3-R 
(Downtown Retail) District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Butkus. Passed First Read  
 
• 181100 Hearing - Appeal of Adjustment, Reduction, or Waiver of Development Project 
Requirements - Residential Childcare Fee - University of San Francisco - Student Residence 
Hall Project, Lone Mountain Campus - 2500 Turk Street  
 
The appeal filed by the University of San Francisco contesting the child care fee for their 
new student housing was withdrawn, so that hearing did not happen.  
 
• 181233 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
3637-3657 Sacramento Street.  
 
And finally, the Board considered the Environmental and CU appeal for 3637 Sacramento 
Street. This project proposes demolition of three existing buildings, and the construction 
of a four-story, mixed-use building containing approximately 6,500 square feet of retail 
use on the first floor, 10,000 square feet of medical offices on the second floor, and 18 
dwelling units on the third and fourth floors. Commissioners you heard this item on 
November 8 of last year and voted 4-2 to approve the project.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 31, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
 
The appellants appealed the CEQA determination mainly over construction related issues, 
such as dust, noise, and overall disruption. They appealed the CU over the large lot 
development and the non-commercial use sizes over 2,500 sq. ft. There was quite a lot of 
public comment in favor of the appeal, while only a couple of speakers came out in favor of 
the project.  
 
Supervisor Stefani had questions about how much residential density is allowed- the 
project is at full density- and why medical office space is proposed on the second floor. 
Supervisor Peskin stated that he did not see the CEQA impacts, but was open to changes to 
the conditions of approval under the CU. In the end, Supervisor Stefani asked that the item 
be continued for one week. The sponsor proposed a list of new conditions they were 
willing to abide by prior to the hearing, and the appellants had not had an opportunity to 
review them yet. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
If there are no questions Commissioners, from the Acting Deputy Zoning Administrator - 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night. While the Board did not act on any Planning 
Commission related items, the Board had been scheduled to hear the appeal of the 
building permit application for 1228 Funston Avenue. The Planning Commission heard this 
item in 2017 as a staff-initiated DR for a project to legalize the rear addition and façade 
alteration that was performed by the property owner, a licensed contractor, without 
benefit of permit. At the hearing, the Commission took DR and followed the staff 
recommendation, requiring the rear addition to be reduced to comply with the Residential 
Design Guidelines. The property owner refused to comply with the Commission's decision, 
resulting in the appeal to the Board of Appeals. Yesterday, the property owner agreed to 
submit a new permit adhering to the Commission's decision. The Department will review 
this permit to ensure compliance and establish a timeline for the property owner to move 
forward. If they fail to do so in a timely manner, the Department will continue with the 
enforcement process including administrative penalties.  
 
Commissioner Richards:    
Yes, on this and some of the other ones we had. This specific one, 214 States, 655 Alvarado, 
49 Hopkins, which was going to be appealed to the Board but wasn't able to get enough 
signatures, either from the Board or from the neighbors, I'd really like to understand what 
the timeline is on enforcement for Planning. What is the reasonable period of time to pull a 
building permit and start actually doing the building, at some point, maybe a memo?  I 
talked to former Zoning Administrator Sanchez and he was a little bit unclear on what that 
is. But on these specific big ones that we’re shaking I'd like to really understand where they 
are occasionally. In the future, maybe every three to six months in terms of enforcement.       
 
Commissioner Hillis:    
Okay.