8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I realize it's not on our calendar, but I did 
have a couple comments related to that different aspect of our hearing last week on Prop 
M. There was a lot of discussion and I know you’ve received a lot of e-mails about the projects 
and the provision of affordable housing as a part of projects and wanted to clarify a couple 
things with respect to that. The projects that would go forward under our, under staff's 
proposal, each of those projects, each of those three projects does involve a land dedication 
site that would result in, that would ultimately hold about 300 units of housing and we 
understand the concern is that it's land and not buildings. But, what I wanted to clarify and 
was not mentioned last week is that those projects also have a fee that would be paid, a 
job’s housing leakage fee, on top of that land. And there's also a very large residential 
project, The Creamery project, which would pay a very large residential fee going forward, 
in their -- as part of their proposal. The result of that is we believe that those fees could result 
in about 300 units of affordable housing actually being built. If you recall, the Central SoMa 
plan requires that fees generated within the plan area are spent within South of Market. So, 
the result of the projects that we had put forward along with the Creamery project would 
create about 300 units of affordable housing and we believe that at least two of the projects, 
litigation pending of course, could move forward next year.  
 
With respect to the Flower Mart, I think I just wanted to clarify that of course that project 
does require development agreement because of the nature of the Flower Mart itself. And 
so, that would come to you and go to the Board of Supervisors. And Kilroy has been working 
with the PUC to secure in a temporary location for the Flower Mart, which I think we are all 

San Francisco Planning Commission