7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thanks Jonas. No new announcements except to say that I'm happy to work on that policy 
and maybe we can run a draft by you in the meantime so that we can make sure we're 
capturing the right issues for your attention.   
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
Land Use Committee was canceled last week and this week. 
  
Full Board  
This week’s Board hearing was also canceled. 
  
Results of Last Week’s hearing:  
• 
190644 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2031 Bush Street (aka the Kinmon 
Gakuen Building). Sponsors: Brown. Staff: D. Smith. Passed First Read  
• 
181215 Administrative, Planning Codes - South of Market Community Advisory 
Committee. Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Starr for Snyder. Passed First Read  
• 
190890 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Community Plan Evaluation - 344-14th 
Street. Staff: Range and George. Appeal Denied/CEQA Upheld  
 
Finally, the Board considered the CEQA appeal for 344-14th Street. The project is a 7-story, 
mixed-use building and would include 60 residential units and approximately 6000 sf of 
ground floor retail. The planning commission approved the project on July 25, 2019 with 
conditions, prohibiting corporate housing (+5-1; Melgar against; Hills absent).  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 17, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
The appellant’s primary concerns contend the department’s environmental analysis for the 
project did not adequately accounted for different soils conditions. The appellant contends 
construction of the proposed project would substantially alter existing drainage patterns 
for the area that would result in significant impacts on the adjacent buildings located 
within the Woodward Street Historic District. The appellant also contended that the 
project was approved under an inadequate Eastern Neighborhoods Plan EIR and that the 
cumulative impacts of changes since the plan was adopted were not adequately studied 
through a Community Plan Evaluation (CPE).  
 
During the hearing, Public comment to uphold the appeal spoke against the project due to 
its impact on residents and businesses as a result of gentrification and displacement in the 
Mission. Public comments also opposed the project due to changes in groundwater, 
hydrology and sewer capacity resulting in potential flooding impacts within the site 
vicinity.  
 
Supervisors asked the Planning Department to elaborate on the adequacy of the Eastern 
Neighborhoods EIR and what would trigger the need for a new PEIR. In the end, 
Supervisors unanimously affirmed the community plan evaluation and denied the appeal.  
 
Introductions  
Lastly, The City Administrator’s Office introduced an ordinance to change the name of the 
Office of Cannabis to the Office of Cannabis Regulation. As this is only name change with 
no other substantive changes, staff was not planning on bringing this ordinance to you for 
a public hearing, unless I hear differently from you now. 
Commissioner Richards: 
Just one comment on -- I know the Eastern Neighborhoods Planning EIR was taken to 
court and it went through a lot of iterations. Does anybody have the status on what the 
ruling was?   
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Well, it was used -- it was questioned in a court case on a specific project.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Yeah 901 16th ...   
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Yes, that case. That was resolved and the court ruled in favor of the project.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Okay. Thanks. 
 
President Melgar: 
So, I'm sorry, I'm going to ask Director Rahaim about that, as well. Not about the legality of 
it, but I watched the hearing at the Board of Supervisors and, you know, while there's no 
expiration date on the EIR, the community's contention has been that things have really 
changed in the last 20 years. Particularly in the eastern neighborhoods and transportation 
patterns have changed, as we now have Uber and Lyft and all sorts of things. Just at what 
point are assumptions outdated? I realize that there's no expiration date but at what point 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 17, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
do we say, hey, it's worth investing, in doing some more environmental analysis going 
forward?   
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
I mean, there's not a clean answer to that question and I'm happy to have a further 
discussion with the Environmental staff and kind of talk about maybe a memo to talk 
about how, where that trigger might be and how we might approach that. I mean, you 
know, the EIR for eastern neighborhoods for example made assumptions that a good 
amount -- a certain amount of housing and a certain amount of office would happen. A lot 
of the housing has happened. The office has not happened in that part of the city, to nearly 
the extent that the EIR covered. So, there's differences in the assumptions that have been 
made. And you’re right, the transportation patterns have changed dramatically. You know, 
I can't tell you right here and now whether there is a trigger to require us to move into 
more environmental analysis, but we can give you some guidance on that.   
 
President Melgar: 
Yeah and you know I wasn't expecting a clean-cut answer. I was more wanting to raise the 
issue as a point of discussion because, I mean aside from Uber and Lyft. And I remember 
being involved in these discussions around the Eastern Neighborhoods. We did not quite 
foresee what would happen to PDR in the Mission or in SoMa. You know, like we could 
imagine but, so I think from the community's perspective, every project that's being built is 
being built with assumptions that we had 20 years ago. And so, like it would behoove us to 
perhaps, you know, think about it. Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Richards: 
One other comment, maybe in the memo, you could pull out the Hub EIR and compare it 
to the Eastern Neighborhoods EIR and see if there's any different assumptions now that 
we're doing one here in 2019 versus 2005 or 2007 or whatever it was. I would love to see 
what the differences actually are. Thanks.