3. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
I'm happy to take that message back to staff and I think the -- I'm thinking that we have is 
that we would come up with kind of a at least, kind of a conceptual level and an alternative 
that we will present to Commission.   
 
President Melgar: 
Yes. And I think we're not solving for the world.  
 
President Melgar: 
Yes. 
 
President Melgar: 
We're solving for this specific issue.  Thank you. 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Right. Thank you. Other than that, I have no new announcements Commissioners. Thank 
you. 
 
4. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Diego Sanchez: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Diego Sanchez. I will be giving you the report, the 
Summary of Board of Activities for this week. At the Land Use Committee there were three 
items of interest. The first was Supervisor Ronen's ordinance to legalize existing uses at 3150 
18th Street. Commissioners, you heard this item on May 23rd and voted to approve with 
modifications. The commission's proposed modifications were to decrease the programs' 
time period from 10 to three years for office uses. At the Land Use hearing, the item was 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 20, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 7 
 
continued per the request of the sponsoring supervisor to provide more time to work with -
- work on the proposed amendments. There was no public comment.  
 
Next, the committee heard Supervisor Mandelman's Building Standards ordinance. This 
ordinance proposes to modify the buildable envelope for the buildings and residential 
districts. Commissioners, you heard this ordinance on April 11th. At that hearing, you 
recommended four modifications. Only one individual spoke about the item during public 
comment. The speaker mentioned that increasing building heights affords the opportunity 
to house the City's homeless and provides space for other public uses. The committee then 
moved to continue the item to June 24th, one week to give the sponsor time to further refine 
his amendments. Because the Land Use committee moved to continue the item, there was 
no deliberation.  
 
Last on the Land Use agenda was the mayor and Supervisor Brown’s Small Business 
Streamlining ordinance. This ordinance would, among other things, expand the types of 
liquor licenses allowed with a bar use, reduce the one quarter mile buffer around limited 
non-conforming commercial uses to 300 feet, amend the definitions of general 
entertainment and allow outdoor activity areas that operate between 6:00 AM and 10:00 
PM as of right. Commissioners, you heard this item on March 7th and voted to approve with 
modifications. Your proposed modification was to retain the Conditional Use Authorization 
requirement for outdoor activity areas associated with the bar use. Without public 
comment, this item was continued to June 24th because the Committee ran out of time. And 
then on Tuesday at the Full Board, there were three items that all passed on second read. 
Those items were the landmark designation for 524 Union Street, aka The Paper Doll. The 
Planning Code Amendment, Regional Commercial and Folsom Street Commercial Transit 
Districts and the last ordinance was the Accessory Dwelling Units in New Construction 
ordinance.  So, this concludes the Summary of Board of Activities for the week. Thank you. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If there are no questions, the Board of Appeals -- on behalf of the Zoning Administrator, the 
Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered one item of interest to the Planning 
Commission. The Planning Commission considered two requests for Discretionary Review 
for the project at 461-463 Duncan Street last December 8th. The proposal was to expand the 
existing single-family home including adding of second basement level dwelling unit. The 
adjacent neighbor’s concerns were mostly related to privacy and the across the street 
neighbors' concerns were mostly related to aesthetics and the preservation of the front 
facade. The Planning Commission took DR and reduced the depth of the second-floor rear 
deck and also required a privacy screen along the eastside of the deck to better address the 
neighbors' privacy concerns. However, partly due to the addition of the second dwelling 
units and its parity with the existing unit, the Commission made no other modifications to 
the project. The building permit was appealed by the same two DR requestors and they 
raised similar concerns and arguments to the Board of Appeals. However, there were two 
additional issues that needed to be addressed. First, the actual permit had only included a 
planter box as the required privacy screen with an intent to provide vegetation as the actual 
screen. All parties agreed that the planter box should instead be replaced by a solid screen. 
Second, the additional dwelling unit had been approved with three bedrooms and a study 
but DBI later determined that two interior bedrooms did not have adequate emergency 
egress and therefore could not be considered bedrooms. As such, the plans were amended 
to relabel those rooms as library and a media room resulting in an 1,800 square foot unit 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 20, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 7 
 
with only one legal bedroom. Considering all these issues, the Board of Appeals voted 3-1 
to grant the appeal and approve the permit with the following conditions: that the privacy 
glass be used for the three east-facing windows at the first floor and that the required 
privacy screen on the eastside of the second-floor rear deck be 7 ft tall and made of opaque 
glass. And third, that the new basement level dwelling unit be revised as needed to ensure 
that it contains at least two legal bedrooms per the building code.  
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. They considered a couple of 
minor permits but that may have be of interest to the Planning Commission as they 
recommended Legacy Business applications for a number of small businesses including 
Hockey Haven out in the avenues and Anchor Brewing.