11. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Just one announcement Commissioners. In your packets today is a memo regarding the 
ConnectSF Transportation Program. I just wanted to announce for your sake, and for the 
public’s sake, we have several public meetings coming up on this program. The first is in the 
southeast, Wednesday, the 13th, from 6 to 8 at Southeast Community Facility. And the 
second is a Youth Workshop, being co-hosted by the San Francisco Youth Commission on 
Thursday, the 21st, from 5 – 7 pm at Mission High School. There will also be, just FYI, two 
public workshops in late January. We don’t have the specifics on those yet but just to give 
you a heads up that these are coming your way. And again, this is regarding ConnectSF 
which is our transportation planning effort that is in concert with the City’s other 
transportation agencies. Thank you. That concludes my report. 
 
12. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 7, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
At this week’s Land Use Committee, the Committee held a hearing on the implementation 
efforts to make Bio-Diversity a citywide priority. The hearing was sponsored by Supervisors 
Fewer and Mandelman. At the hearing, Planning, The Port, PUC, Recreation and Parks 
Department, the Department of Environment and DPW presented. During public comment, 
members from various environmental groups spoke about issues related to bio-diversity in 
the city and concerns about that.  However, the overall discussion was very positive. After 
the hearing, the committee filed the item. 
 
At last week’s Budget and Finance Committee, the Committee heard Supervisor 
Mandelman’s ordinance that would extend the temporary use permits for medical cannabis 
dispensaries. Commissioners, you heard this on October 24th and voted to recommend 
approval. The Planning Commission's recommendation was to extend the temporary 
permits to four years instead of three. At the hearing there was no public comment and 
Supervisor Mandelman made a motion to add the commission’s proposed modification.  
Because of the amendment, the item had to be continued one week and then at this week's 
committee hearing, they voted to recommend the item to the Full Board.  
 
At this week's Full Board hearing, the Job's Housing Linkage Fee sponsored by Supervisor 
Haney passed its second read and the Fulton Street grocery store sponsored by Supervisor 
Brown passed its second read.  The appeals and the approvals for 3333 California Street were 
continued for one week to November 12th and that's all I have for you today. 
 
Scott Sanchez, Acting Zoning Administrator: 
The Board of Appeals met last night and they heard one item that may be of interest to the 
Planning Commission.  That is the appeal of a large project authorization for the property at 
344 14th Street. And over the last year, the Planning Commission had many hearings on this 
and ultimately take action earlier this year granting the large project authorization. This is 
also a State Density Bonus project and was the first State Density Bonus project that has 
been appealed to the Board of Appeals. Many of the issues that were raised during the 
appeal hearing last night related to the Environmental Review, which had also been  
appealed to the Board of Supervisors within the last month or so. And at that hearing, the 
Board of Supervisors unanimously upheld the Environmental determination that the 
Department made on the project. Similarly, last night, the Board of Appeals unanimously 
upheld the project and the matter is concluded.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. They approved or adopted 
Recommendations for Approval for multiple Legacy Business Registry applicants. But the 
only item of note is they also reviewed the Retained Elements: Special Topic Design 
Guidelines which will be coming before you, as well.