10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
AnMarie Rodgers: 
Thank you very much. Hi, I'm AnMarie Rodgers, on behalf of John Rahaim who is out of the 
office today. As many of you know, last Friday there was a tragic accident on Howard Street 
that resulted in the death of a cyclist, Tess Rothstein. And on behalf of the Department, we 
wanted to confirm our deep commitment to increasing cyclist and pedestrian safety in all 
of our long-range planning work. Secondly, I wanted to update the Commission and the 
public on some of the permanent improvements that we're working on but you should 
know that this is in light of there were immediate actions that MTA took to remove parking 
along this stretch. As for as the long-term process, these are flowing out of both our south 
of downtown design and activation plan and would implement some of the components 
of the Central SoMa plan. The Planning Department is working with the MTA and Public 
Works to create a two-way bikeway on the stretch, reduce vehicular traffic lanes and 
redesign intersections along Howard between the waterfront and 4th Street. This work is 
called SODA, and we'll be presenting these concepts to the public in mid-May with a goal 
to go out to bid in 2021, and construction would immediately follow. Thank you.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 14, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There is no report from the Board of Appeals or the Historic Preservation Commission. 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
181154 Planning Code - Inclusionary Housing Fee. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Bintliff.  
 
This week the Land Use committee heard Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance to remove 
grandfathering exceptions for an additional inclusionary housing fee on State Density 
Bonus projects. The Planning Commission heard this ordinance on January 31 and 
February 14 and voted unanimously to recommend disapproval. At Land Use hearing, 
committee members asked Planning staff for more information on the one project that 
would be affected by the ordinance, and Supervisor Peskin stated that the intention of the 
ordinance was not to single out that project, though he acknowledged it would have that 
effect in practice. The committee did not take the Planning Commission’s 
recommendation and instead advance the ordinance to the full board with a 
recommendation for approval.  
 
• 
190047 Administrative, Planning Codes - Streamlined Contracting for Homeless 
Services and Siting for Homeless Shelters. Sponsors: Mayor; Brown, Walton, Haney, 
Mandelman and Stefani. Staff: Conner.  
 
Next, the Land Use Committee heard Mayor Breed’s ordinance to permit Homeless Shelters 
in PDR and SALI Districts during a declared shelter crisis. The Planning Commission heard 
this ordinance on February 28th and voted unanimously to recommend approval.  
 
At the Land Use Committee, Supervisors asked questions of HSH regarding supportive 
services offered on-site and the difference between SAFE Centers and Navigation Centers. 
Supervisor Haney recommended amending the findings in the Ordinance to make a 
commitment to add new Navigation or SAFE Centers with greater geographic diversity. 
The committee then voted to advance the ordinance to the full board with a 
recommendation for approval.  
 
Full Board  
• 
190007 General Plan - Downtown Area Plan Amendment - 175 Golden Gate Avenue 
Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Butkus. PASSED Second Read  
• 
180645 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezoning, Preservation Designation - 175 Golden 
Gate Avenue. Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Butkus. PASSED Second Read