6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Congratulations to the new President and Vice President. And thank you, both, for your 
service and we look forward to working with you.  And Commissioner Hillis, you are 
certainly welcome to join us for the biweekly meetings still in my office if you’d like.  
 
Last week you’ve heard a number of people testify about a project on 47th Avenue, 1295 
47th Avenue. Where there was a concern about a DR that had been potentially rejected by 
the Zoning Administrator and I just wanted to get back to you on that to clear up what 
actually happened. This project was an ADU, which does not require notification, of course. 
And the tenant became aware of the permit back in June of '18 and was aware of the 
proposed ADU and that work being done on the project. We informed them of the process 
for DR’s but the actual DR was not filed until the Department had already approved the 
permit. So it was, you know, and per our procedures and per the code, once the permit is 
approved, it's no longer possible to actually file the DR. So I think there was a 
misunderstanding about the timing and in this case I don't understand exactly why the 
staff says they actually hadn't informed the tenant and their attorney on this. But in this 
case it was simply after the permit was already approved. And I will remind you that 
subsequent to -- I think it was last fall -- I can't remember exactly when we added a 
procedure if you might recall that requires building owners to inform tenants when they're 
putting in an ADU, that they have to inform them if the ADU would be in a space that the 
tenant uses for parking or storage or laundry, or something of that facility. So that 
procedure went into place after this particular project went forward. So I just wanted to 
clear that situation up. Thank you for your time and happy to answer any questions.   
 
President Melgar: 
Thank you, Director. We were all wondering about that.   
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
 Land Use Committee  
• 
181111 General Plan Amendment - Downtown Area Plan - 1650, 1660, 1670 and 1680 
Mission Street. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Starr. Item 1  
 
• 
181112 General Plan Amendment - Market and Octavia Area Plan - 1650, 1660, 1670 
and 1680 Mission Street. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Starr. Item 2 
  
• 
180474 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezoning 1650-1680 Mission Street. Sponsor: 
Real Estate Division. Staff: Starr. Item 3  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission