10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you.  Commissioners, the only announcement I was going to make was, no no, was 
what President Melgar said, Kate was honored last night along with five other city 
employees for a Good Government award. It was a very lovely event downstairs in the 
North Light Court. And we are very proud of her for all of the work that she's done.  She has 
become, as I said in my comments last night, she has become our go-to person on all 
things related to housing. And particularly her willing, her ability to kind of cut through the 
bureaucracy and just make sure that these projects move forward. Especially affordable 
housing projects. So, we really appreciate Kate’s work and we congratulate her on the 
award. Thank you.   
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
190007 General Plan - Downtown Area Plan Amendment - 175 Golden Gate Avenue 
Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Butkus. Item 1  
• 
180645 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezoning, Preservation Designation - 175 Golden 
Gate Avenue. Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Butkus.  
 
At this week’s land use hearing, the Committee heard the rezoning and GP 
amendment for 175 Golden Gate Avenue. These ordinances would rezone the subject 
property to C-3-G and make corresponding changes to the Map 1 of the Downtown 
Plan so that the property can take advantage of the TDR program. You heard this item 
on September 27 of last year and voted to recommend approval. At the hearing, only 
the project sponsor’s representative spoke during public comment, and no significant 
questions were asked by the Committee members. The item was then forwarded to 
the Full Board with a positive recommendation as a committee report.  
 
Full Board  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 7, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
• 
180003 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 460 Arguello Boulevard (aka 
Theodore Roosevelt Middle School). Sponsor: HPC. Staff: Ferguson. PASSED Second 
Read  
• 
180005 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2728 Bryant Street (aka Sunshine 
School). Sponsor: HPC. Staff: Ferguson. PASSED Second Read  
• 
181045 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 170 Valencia Street. Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: 
Butkus. PASSED Second Read  
• 
190108 Planning Code - Conversion of Medical Cannabis Dispensary Uses to Cannabis 
Retail Uses. Sponsor: City Administrator. Staff: Christensen. PASSED Second Read  
• 
181247 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental Review - 
2831-2833 Pierce Street. Staff: Cisneros and Walker.  
 
The Board also hear the CEQA appeal for 2831-2833 Pierce Street. This project includes 
a horizontal and a partial vertical addition to an existing two-unit building. You heard 
this item as a DR in December of last year and voted to take DR and modify the project.  
 
While not explicitly stated in the appeal letter, the department understood that the 
appellant disagreed with the Department’s determination that the existing building 
was not a historical resource under CEQA.  
 
At the hearing there was no public comment either in favor or against the appeal. In 
the end the Board denied the appeal and upheld the department’s Categorical 
Exemption determination.  
 
• 
190007 General Plan - Downtown Area Plan Amendment - 175 Golden Gate Avenue] 
Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Butkus. Passed First Read  
• 
180645 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezoning, Preservation Designation - 175 Golden 
Gate Avenue. Sponsor: Haney. Staff: Butkus. Passed First Read  
• 
190209 Mayoral Reappointment, Historic Preservation Commission - Richard Johns. 
Adopted  
• 
190210 Mayoral Appointment, Historic Preservation Commission - Kate Black. Adopted  
• 
190211 Mayoral Reappointment, Historic Preservation Commission - Andrew Wolfram. 
Adoption 
 
Scott Sanchez, Assistant Zoning Administrator: 
And the Board of Appeals met last night but did not take any final actions on any items of 
interest to the Commission.   
 
Tim Frye, Preservation Officer: 
Here to share a few items from yesterday's Historic Preservation Commission hearing. First 
of all, the Historic Preservation Commission provided review and comment on the 
Accessory Dwelling Unit Planning Business and Tax Regulation Code Amendments that I 
believe that are on your calendar today. The Commission had a number of questions 
related to how the performance criteria that are proposed by staff for historic buildings 
would be implemented and they are -- have continued that item after providing some 
general direction and support for the program. They did continue the item to have further 
conversation about how the Department would review ministerial grants for landmark 
properties at its next hearing. The Commission also unanimously approved a Certificate of 
Appropriateness for the Teatro Zinzanni site located on the Northeast Waterfront 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 7, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
Landmark District. This is also a Port property. The project has been in the Department for 
a number of years and apparently after some negotiations with the tenant and the Port, 
was finally ready for its hearing before the HPC. The ARC reviewed the project twice and 
was happy to see that all recommendations from the Architectural Review Committee 
were incorporated into the final project. There were a couple members from the 
community that voiced opposition to or concern to the project, mainly related to parking, 
which I'm sure that you will hear when you take up the conditional use authorization for 
that item.  And then, finally, the Historic Preservation Commission issued the Certificate of 
Appropriateness for 906 Broadway, this is the Our Lady of Guadalupe in the North Beach 
neighborhood. As you know, the pending landmark designation of the interior is at the 
Board of Supervisors and this certificate of appropriateness is to create a connecting stair 
behind the altar to allow for the new use which, again, will be granted hopefully through 
conditional use authorization by this Commission at a future date. So that concludes my 
presentation unless you have any questions. Thank you.