10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you. Commissioners, no new announcements except to say happy New Year, and I 
think I was incorrect in my, the informational hearing I mentioned. I think, is February 21st 
not in January. We'll try to see if we can get a hearing for the DBI Commission before you 
have to act on that ordinance.   
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
181046 Planning Code - HOME-SF Project Authorization. Sponsors: Tang; Safai. Staff: 
Ikezoe.  
 
First on the land use agenda was the ordinance, sponsored by Supervisors Tang and 
Safaí to revise the HOME SF program. This ordinance amended the approval process 
for HOME SF projects and the fee schedule. Commissioners you hear this item on 
December 6, 2018 and voted to approve with modifications. Those modifications 
included: 
 
1. To combine the excess parking conditional use findings into the HOME-SF 
approval process for projects seeking parking in excess to what is principally 
permitted. 
2. And to allow the Tiered Home SF program to remain until a replacement is 
adopted by the Board.  
 
Both amendments were included in the ordinance. 
 
At the hearing Supervisor Peskin was sitting in for Supervisor Safai. Supervisors Kim 
and Tang were both present for their very last Board hearing. Supervisor Kim 
questioned whether or not we should be making it easier to allow these projects to 
seek additional parking, given that we had just removed minimum parking standards, 
and Supervisor Peskin asked that a definition be added to the code to define 
development application.  
 
Tang agreed to add the definition to the code, but kept I the parking provision. The 
committee then voted to forward the item to the full board with a positive 
recommendation.  
 
• 
181061 Planning Code - Conversion of Medical Cannabis Dispensary Uses to Cannabis 
Retail Uses. Sponsor: Office of Cannabis. Staff: Christensen.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission