6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. First on the 
Land Use agenda was the ordinance to include a reference to the Polk-Pacific Design 
Guidelines in the Planning Code. This ordinance was originally initiated by the Planning 
Commission, but once it was transmitted to the Board, Supervisor Peskin took over 
sponsorship. Commissioners, you heard this item on January 17th and voted to recommend 
approval. At the Land Use Committee, Robin Tucker and our own Commissioner Moore 
spoke during public comment and applauded the efforts of the Planning Department and 
community members who engaged in formulating the guidelines. Supervisor Peskin also 
spoke highly of the process that created the guidelines as well as the guidelines 
themselves. Land Use Committee voted to recommend the item to the Full Board 
unanimously.  
 
Next the Committee heard an amended version of the CU requirement for Employees 
Cafeterias Ordinance. You originally heard this in October of 2018 where you 
recommended disapproval and again on March 7th 2019, where there was no successful 
motion to approve or continue the item resulting in a de facto disapproval. At Monday’s 
hearing, Supervisor Safai, the legislative sponsor, provided background on the genesis of 
the ordinance. He also outlined his proposed amendments which include one, expanding 
the CU requirement to all office uses, not just general office use; add location on operating 
conditions that differentiate between break rooms and cafeterias with full-service 
kitchens; add location operating conditions that exempt certain cafeterias from the CU 
requirement if they are at the first story; open to the public, designed to the standards for 
active use; and provide meals that are not majority subsidized. Add grandfathering 
provision and add the conditional use consideration for cafeterias subject to conditional 
use. Many of these were proposed by staff to the Planning Commission. Supervisor Peskin 
proposed amending the grandfathering clause to July 1st 2019. Only one member of the 
public spoke during public comment. The speaker was a representative of the SF Chamber 
of Commerce who is against the CU requirement, fearing that it would make business less 
likely to locate within San Francisco.  After public comment, the Land Use Committee 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 25, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
moved to accept the grandfathering amendment in addition to other amendments by 
Safai, and then to recommend the ordinance to the Full Board as a committee report.  
 
The next item was an ordinance to legalize non-residential uses at 3115 18th Street, also 
known as Active Space. This Commission heard the item on May 23rd and voted to approve 
the ordinance with a modification to shorten the legitimization program’s time period 
from ten years to three years for office space. During the hearing, a lot of tenants came to 
speak in favor of the program. They also requested the changes be made permanent. After 
public comment, Supervisor Ronen acknowledged the difficult position the tenants are in 
but stated that PDR uses must also be protected. After similar comments from the 
members of the community regarding the need to preserve the building as PDR in the long 
term, Supervisor Ronen introduced an amendment to the legislation that would include 
the Commission's recommended modification. The amendment was adopted by the 
Committee and the ordinance was then recommended to the Full Board.  
 
Next the Committee heard the Mayor and Supervisor Brown's Small Business Streamlining 
ordinance. The debate continued for whether to eliminate the quarter-mile buffer around 
restricted use districts plus Supervisor Brown and Peskin had been conducting outreach 
with other supervisors to determine which RUDs in the district may want to retain their 
quarter-mile buffers. Through that outreach, the supervisors learned that the RUDs in 
Districts 10, 1 and 3 and the Noe Valley RUD in District 8 would prefer to retain the quarter-
mile buffer. The Committee then directed the City Attorney’s office to draft language for 
each of these RUDs which would be adopted at the Full Board. With that the item went 
forward without recommendation for the first reading at the Board on July 30th.  
 
The Committee then held a hearing called by Supervisor Mandelman to present and 
discuss high-priority pathways to achieving deep clean house gas emission reductions by 
2030. Supervisor Mandelman requested this 100-day report back in his March Climate 
Emergency resolution. San Francisco environment presented key analysis from the Focus 
2030 Pathways report, which Planning and other departments peer reviewed, such as the 
need to start decarbonizing new buildings as soon as possible and meet 80% of trips with 
transit, biking, or walking. A myriad of departments, including Planning, all gave three-
minute presentations on the respective agency's opportunities, challenges and overall 
support in tackling emissions reductions across grey sectors. Over 45 members of the 
public gave comment, each reiterating the need for bold and urgent action by city leaders 
and departments. Many also asked for follow-up opportunities to continue this urgent 
discussion with all the supervisors. Vice-chair Safai moved that this hearing be heard and 
filed which passed unanimously.  
 
Lastly, the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would change the 
abandonment period for CUs in the North Beach NCD from 18 months to three years. 
Commissioners, you may recall you waived your opportunity to hear this item based on 
staff’s recommendation. At the hearing, no one spoke during public comment and 
Supervisor Peskin made some brief comments about the proposed change. The Committee 
voted unanimously to send the item to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
At the Full Board this week, Supervisor Safai's Large Residential SUD passed its first read. 
Supervisor Mandelman’s Building Standard ordinance was continued to July 30th to 
continue to work out some concerns from other supervisors. Supervisor Mandelman's code 
changes to the Upper Market NCT and NCT-3 Zoning District passed its first read. The North 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 25, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
of Market Affordable Housing Fee and Citywide Affordable Housing Fund amendments 
sponsored by the Mayor was amended to index the fee as the Commission had 
recommended, and then it was referred back to the Committee for review.  
 
Temporary Uses and Interim Activities ordinance sponsored by Supervisor Brown that 
would allow Farmer's Markets at the DMV passed its first read. The interim controls to 
require conditional use authorization for a change of use from a nighttime entertainment 
use to another use in the South of Market area sponsored by Supervisor Haney was 
adopted. The legalization program for Active Space passed its first read, as did the Polk 
Pacific Area Design Guidelines and the North Beach CU Abandonment Period ordinance 
sponsored by Supervisor Peskin. And that concludes my report.