5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
190812 Planning Code - Allowing Long-Term Parking of and Overnight Camping in 
Vehicles and Ancillary Uses at 2340 San Jose Avenue. Sponsors: Safai; Yee and Ronen. 
Staff: D. Sanchez.  
 
This week, the Land Use Committee considered Supervisor Safai’s ordinance that would 
allow Long Term Parking of and Overnight Camping in Vehicles at 2340 San Jose Avenue. 
The Planning Commission heard this ordinance on August 29, 2019 and recommended 
approval with modification. The sole modification was to alter the proposed temporary use 
authorization so that it may be used at other sites.  
 
At the Land Use committee, public comment was in support of the Ordinance and many 
speakers expressed a desire to see this program extended citywide. After public comment, 
the Land Use Committee unanimously recommended the Ordinance as a committee report 
to be heard at the Full BoS.  
 
• 
190355 Planning Code - Authorizing Interim Activities at Development Sites. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Haney. Staff: Merlone. Continued to the call of the chair.  
 
Full Board  
• 
190702 Planning Code - New Rooftop Floor Area or Building Volume on Noncomplying 
Structure Designated as a Significant Building - Assessor’s Parcel Block No. 3707. 
Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Adina. PASSED Second Read  
• 
190594 Planning Code - Reorganization of Chinatown Mixed Use Districts. Sponsor: 
Planning Commission. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read  
• 
190812 Planning Code - Allowing Long-Term Parking of and Overnight Camping in 
Vehicles and Ancillary Uses at 2340 San Jose Avenue. Sponsors: Safai; Yee and Ronen. 
Staff: D. Sanchez. First Read  
 
Introductions  
• 
190548 REINTRODUCTION Planning Code - Jobs Housing Linkage Fee and Inclusionary 
Housing. Sponsor: Haney. Staff: D. Sanchez. In the new version the fee increased from 
$19.96 to $69.60 for Office Space and $13.30 to $46.43 for Laboratories (previously 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 12, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 9 
 
Research and Development). The original ordinance increased the fee to $38 from $19.69 
and did not change any other fees.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals met last night and considered three items that may be of interest to 
the Planning Commission. All three appeals related to disapprovals of building permit 
applications that the Planning Commission made under discretionary review. For these 
appeals, the Board of Appeals considers the item De Novo, which means they hear the case 
anew and are not required to defer to the findings of fact or determinations of the 
Planning Commission.  
 
610 Camino Del Mar, the subject permit seek to convert a portion of an existing solarium 
into a roof deck. The Planning Commission heard this item as a public initiated 
discretionary review on December 6, 2018 and denied the permits citing a previous private 
agreement between the DR requestor and the permit applicant. The private agreement 
was created in response to a previous Discretionary Review in 2011 that was ultimately 
withdrawn based upon changes to the project that were made by the permit applicant. 
These changes included removal of a proposed deck similar to that proposed under the 
current permit. And the appellant, the permit applicant, argued that it was improper for 
the Planning Commission to base their decision on a private agreement which did not 
prohibit them from applying for a similar project in the future. The Board found the basis 
for the decision to be problematic and continued the item until October 23rd to allow the 
parties additional time to resolve their dispute.  
 
1794 Filbert Street, the subject permit seek to configure the lay-out of the three existing 
dwelling units in the building by relocating one dwelling unit to a new third story addition 
which would extend into the rear yard requiring a variance. The Planning Commission 
heard this item as a public initiated Discretionary Review on October 29, 2018 and 
February 14, 2019 and voted to deny the permit because the project would not retain 
existing housing stock, and the third-floor dwelling unit would be out of scale and will not 
be considered affordable. The Zoning Administrator subsequently denied the request for 
the rear yard variance, while the appellant, the permit holder, appealed the Planning 
Commission’s denial of the building permit. They did not appeal the denial of the variance. 
At the hearing, the appellant presented a revised project that reduced the proposed third-
floor addition, such that the project is now code compliant and included an ADU in the 
vacant non-confirming ground floor commercial space. The board found that these 
changes resulted in a project that was compatible with the neighborhood character and 
provided additional housing. The Board continued the item to October 23rd, to allow the 
appellant to work with staff to finalize the design of the project.  
 
120 Varennes Street, the subject permit seeks to a vertical addition to an existing building 
containing two dwelling units. The Planning Commission heard this as a public initiated 
Discretionary Review on March 7, 2019 and denied the permit finding that the project had 
been used as a means of dislodging existing protected tenants under rent control. The 
appellant, again the permit applicant, argued that while the project must be approved 
under the Housing Accountability Act, they would now revise the project to include an 
ADU. The Department noted that the Housing Accountability Act would not apply to the 
project because the permit under appeal did not add dwelling units. The Board considered 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 12, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
the tenant history and voted to deny the appeal citing the fact that the permit that was 
before them did not maximize appropriate density on the lot.