8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I realize it's not on our calendar, but I did 
have a couple comments related to that different aspect of our hearing last week on Prop 
M. There was a lot of discussion and I know you’ve received a lot of e-mails about the projects 
and the provision of affordable housing as a part of projects and wanted to clarify a couple 
things with respect to that. The projects that would go forward under our, under staff's 
proposal, each of those projects, each of those three projects does involve a land dedication 
site that would result in, that would ultimately hold about 300 units of housing and we 
understand the concern is that it's land and not buildings. But, what I wanted to clarify and 
was not mentioned last week is that those projects also have a fee that would be paid, a 
job’s housing leakage fee, on top of that land. And there's also a very large residential 
project, The Creamery project, which would pay a very large residential fee going forward, 
in their -- as part of their proposal. The result of that is we believe that those fees could result 
in about 300 units of affordable housing actually being built. If you recall, the Central SoMa 
plan requires that fees generated within the plan area are spent within South of Market. So, 
the result of the projects that we had put forward along with the Creamery project would 
create about 300 units of affordable housing and we believe that at least two of the projects, 
litigation pending of course, could move forward next year.  
 
With respect to the Flower Mart, I think I just wanted to clarify that of course that project 
does require development agreement because of the nature of the Flower Mart itself. And 
so, that would come to you and go to the Board of Supervisors. And Kilroy has been working 
with the PUC to secure in a temporary location for the Flower Mart, which I think we are all 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 11, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 15 
 
aware of. And finally, you know, there was a lot of discussion last week about the pending 
litigation we get that. We understand that there's concern about delays, but we do think 
that the kind of going ahead with the projects that the Commission sees fit is still important 
in light of the litigation. So, I just wanted to clarify that. And I will mention that at the end of 
last week, after last week, I've convened staff to kind of debrief on the hearing. We are 
preparing a memo for you to talk about kind of in more specifically our recommendations 
but also, we can include what you talked about today and do the research on the beauty 
contest. It's been a while and predates I think virtually everyone on the staff. So, we will dig 
through the files and see what we can come up with and make that part of the memo as 
well.   
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Director Rahaim, thank you for actually adding that clarification to last week's presentation. 
I would like just to remind you, in particular, as you’re directing staff, that Mr. Sucre seemed 
to be very amenable to provide us, as Commissioners, with more detailed presentation on 
these three projects, or four or whatever, there are how many. There are four I think. So, we 
will have a better base understanding of what is in front of us before we get in the deals and 
wheels behind it. So, that would be greatly appreciated.   
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee 
• 
190230 Interim Zoning Controls - Conditional Use Authorization for Conversion of 
Child Care Facilities to Other Uses. Sponsors: Yee; Mar and Fewer. Staff: Flores 
 
At this week’s land use hearing the Committee considered interim controls from 
Supervisor Yee, that would require conditional use authorization for a change of use 
from a Childcare Facility to another use. The intention behind these interim controls 
is to slow the displacement of childcare facilities in the short term, while providing 
time to develop a long-term solution. As an interim control this item did not come 
to the Planning Commissions; however, staff will be working with Supervisor Yee’s 
office on permanent controls, which will come to you for your consideration and 
adoption. 
 
Government Audit and Oversight Committee 
Last Thursday, the government audit and oversight committee held a hearing on a 
resolution to “oppose SB 50, unless amended”. At the hearing there was significant 
discussion about the City’s RENA goals and how we are over performing for “Above 
Moderate” housing; while falling short on the lower income groups. Staff also noted 
that the most recent RHNA goals were produced during an economic down-cycle; 
and had regional agencies known growth would be this strong, the RHNA targets 
would likely have been larger. Further, since San Francisco has a large unmet need, 
when SF produces 100% of the RHNA goals we’re only producing enough to meet 
expected growth and not enough to counteract the housing deficit. Staff also 
shared new information produced by Berkeley that looked at the feasibility for new 
housing under SB50 in both a high-income area (Menlo Park) and a lower-income 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 11, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 15 
 
area (Fruitvale). The UC Berkeley study showed that new housing under SB50 would 
be highly profitable in Menlo Park but would not be profitable in Fruitvale.  
 
The GAO hearing lasted several hours with most speakers expressing concern about 
the state bill. Supervisors Mar & Fewer expressed support for infill housing and 
added density—but wanted these changes to come from a community process. 
They were concerned that the current bill may increase displacement pressures on 
already stressed communities. Supervisor Brown was sympathetic to these 
concerns. She asked that San Francisco work with the state legislature on 
amendments that would protect our interests and enable support of the bill. The 
Committee then forwarded the resolution to the Full Board with minor 
amendments. 
 
Full Board 
• 
190030 Planning Code - Union Square Park, Recreation, and Open Space Fee. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Butkus. PASSED Second Read 
• 
181154 Planning Code - Inclusionary Housing Fee. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Bintliff. 
PASSED Second Read 
• 
190188 Planning Code - Amending Landmark Designation - 906 Broadway (Iglesia 
de Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe/Our Lady of Guadalupe Church. Sponsor: Peskin. 
Staff: Smith. Passed First Read 
• 
190319 Opposing California State Senate Bill No. 50 (Wiener) – Housing 
Development: Incentives - Unless Amended] Sponsors: Mar; Mandelman, Yee, 
Fewer, Peskin, Walton and Ronen 
 
Next the board considered the resolution SB 50. At the Full Board hearing, 
Supervisor Brown offered specific amendments (see attached) so that the SB 50 
program could not be combined with the State Density Bonus and so that there 
would not be additional incentives & concessions that would weaken our local code. 
She also offered amendments to increase protections for sensitive communities by 
allowing cities to define the sensitive areas. She suggested an anti-Monster Home 
provision and asked for more clarity on the ability of cities to add inclusionary 
and/or designate plan areas as compliant with SB50. The BOS expressed interest in 
developing these amendments and duplicated the file so that the GAO Committee 
could consider the amendments later. With that, the BOS voted 9-2 (Brown Safai) to 
approve the more general “oppose, unless amended” resolution so that the City 
could state clearly its interest in getting amendments before any further action by 
the state legislature. 
 
• 
190093 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Community Plan Evaluation - 1052-
1060 Folsom Street and 190-194 Russ Street. Staff: Sheyner, Espiritu, White. 3:00 PM 
Special Order, Items 20-23 
• 
190097 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization - Proposed Project at 
1052-1060 Folsom Street and 190-194 Russ Street. Staff: Sucre/Starr. 3:00 PM 
Special Order. Items 24-27 
 
Finally, the Board took up the CEQA and CU appeal 1052-1060 Folsom Street. This 
Project includes the demolition of five existing buildings on three lots, merger of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 11, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 15 
 
the lots into one parcel, and the construction of a new seven-story, mixed use 
building containing ground floor retail space and 63 dwelling units. 
 
The CEQA appeal dealt mainly with whether the shadow was a significant impact to 
the adjacent park. During the CEQA hearing Supervisor Peskin made several 
comments about the original intention of Proposition K and the ability of the Rec 
and Parks Commission and the Planning Commission’s to hold join hearings on 
shadow issues, which did not happen in this case. He also discussed the ability of 
the Rec and Parks commission to weigh the benefits of the project against the 
projected shadow. This issue was germane because the Rec and Parks commission 
had rejected an early project that was significantly smaller a few years ago for 
shadow impacts. Supervisor Haney, though, did not feel that the CEQA review as 
inadequate and made a motion to uphold the CEQA determination and reject the 
appeal. This motion passed with Supervisor Peskin voting against it and Supervisor 
Safai recused. 
 
On the issue of the CU however, the Board had more latitude to evaluate the merits 
of the project. The public comment for this item was very long, and dozens of 
children who live in the area and use the park, as well as other members of the 
community spoke out against the project. Their concerns were over the proposed 
shadow on the park and the continuing gentrification of their neighborhood. There 
were also several speakers in favor of the proposed project, who noted the need for 
more housing in San Francisco, and the fact that the proposed project would 
provide 15 on-site Inclusionary units and not cause displacement of existing 
residents. 
 
At the end of the public comment, Supervisor Haney made a motion to overturn the 
Planning Commission’s CU approval and send the project back to the Commission 
stating that the proposed project’s impact on the adjacent park rendered it not 
necessary or desirable. This motion passed on a unanimous vote with Supervisor 
Safai recused. 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – 1052 Folsom shadow impact 
 
Commissioner Richards:    
A couple comments. First, I met with Supervisor Mar yesterday and we talked about kind of 
putting our money where our mouth is and actually starting a real community-based 
dialogue on what the Sunset wants to be in the future in terms of adding population and 
density and its share of growth. And I suggested he work with Director Rahaim and staff and 
AnMarie and he took that suggestion and you should be getting call from him. The other 
one on Ms. Hestor's comment, I watched the entire hearing on my computer at home on the 
Folsom Street project that she was referencing. And I think Supervisor Peskin made a really 
good point. He said it's a false equivalent, see where we start trying to say, “this much 
shadow equals this much money”, or “this much shadow equals this much housing”, it’s 
really needs to be measured in and of itself not against some other type of a measurement. 
And I thought that that was a really apt statement. That's what the voters had intended 
when they passed Prop K not to put up against other things to measure.