11. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Commissioner Fung, welcome back to 
the Planning Commission. It’s great to have you. On behalf of the Department, we look 
forward to working with you very much. Secondly, a couple of hearings -- a couple of the 
past hearings, you've heard comments about a project on 18th Street, on the Castro and 
some potential for enforcement action. We have indeed found that there's potential action 
on that project that the Department needs to take. So, we will be bringing that to you in 
the next few weeks to deal with that issue, as well. I can't remember the exact address I’m 
sorry. And thirdly, I just wanted to tell you and related to an item that’s coming up shortly. 
There was the last of several meetings yesterday that I sat on, with Ken Rich representing 
the City on the MTC ABAG Legislative Committee that is reviewing all the State legislation. 
We plowed through another five or six pieces of legislations yesterday in a four-hour 
meeting. The MTC ABAG staff has done an incredible job of analyzing these legislations. 
The committee is not taking a position but rather all comments are being recorded and 
those comments will be passed on to the boards of the MTC Commission and the ABAG 
Board to consider when they take a position on all these bills which is coming up over the 
next month or six weeks or so. So, again when we have time and more detail, I can talk 
about some of the detailed comments, but in general there was a pretty broad diversity of 
comments from the committee about many of these pieces of legislation. Obviously, SB 50 
listed a lot of comments but many of the other bills did, too. Particularly the one related to 
the regional affordable housing entity that is proposed on one of the bills and several 
others as well, which we can get into more detail. But I just wanted to report to you that 
those meetings are largely wrapped up. We are holding a time at the end of May to kind of 
have a final meeting, if needed, to review changes to any of the bills. That concludes my 
comments. Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, one question. I know we're going to review CASA today and I don't know whether 
there's 12 or 15 bills. But you said last week or two weeks ago, there's like 36 substantial 
bills. Will we be able to have an understanding with the other, the balance of those are? 
 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I can, I forgot to do that. I can pass on the – there’s a kind of a spreadsheet of the 36 
that the MTC/ABAG staff has looked at in somewhat more detail and I can get that for you. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 2, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
Great. Thank you. 
 
12. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• No Planning Department items  
 
Full Board  
• 
190249 Development Agreement - SYTS Investments, LLC - 915 Cayuga Avenue. 
Sponsor: Safai. Staff: Flores. Passed First Read  
• 
190250 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Cayuga/Alemany Special Use District. Sponsor: 
Safai. Staff: Flores. Passed First Read  
• 
190251 Planning Code - Zoning Map Amendment. Sponsor: Safai. Staff: Flores. Passed 
First Read  
• 
190340 Mayoral Appointment, Planning Commission - Frank Fung. Adopted  
 
Tim Frye, Preservation Officer: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners.  Tim Frye, department staff.  Here to share with you a 
little about yesterday’s Historic Preservation Commission hearing. Also, a very short 
hearing where the Commission provided Review and Comment and a Recommendation of 
Approval to the pending Castro Cultural District. The only suggested amendment that the 
HPC made was to include the Historic Preservation Commission as a partner and technical 
advisor to the community as needed, as they move through a process of developing the 
Cultural Heritage Strategy report. That concludes my report unless you have any questions. 
Thanks. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Mr. Starr, was there a second read on the appeal on the Folsom, was it 1060 Folsom Street? 
The one that shadowed the Victoria Manalo Draves Park with the findings?  
 
Aaron Starr: 
Yeah. That – 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, it was up -- officially upheld? 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Yes. It was. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Thanks. 
 
Aaron Starr: 
It -- no I think it was last week.  I can find the exact date but -- 
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Okay thanks. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 2, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Mr. Frye, there was several Legacy Business applications pending before the HPC. Could 
you comment on those please? 
 
Tim Frye, Preservation Officer: 
I have no comment on those unfortunately.  But it is a fairly common practice every 
hearing the Commission does provide its recommendation to a number of Legacy 
Businesses. I, unfortunately, don’t have the list in front of me today but I believe there 
were anywhere between five and six businesses that were proposed. And they all received 
unanimous approval to move on to the Small Business Commission.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I think the one you’re interested in, the Leavenworth project. The grocery store with the 
rooftop garden was approved. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you.