11. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Commissioner Fung, welcome back to 
the Planning Commission. It’s great to have you. On behalf of the Department, we look 
forward to working with you very much. Secondly, a couple of hearings -- a couple of the 
past hearings, you've heard comments about a project on 18th Street, on the Castro and 
some potential for enforcement action. We have indeed found that there's potential action 
on that project that the Department needs to take. So, we will be bringing that to you in 
the next few weeks to deal with that issue, as well. I can't remember the exact address I’m 
sorry. And thirdly, I just wanted to tell you and related to an item that’s coming up shortly. 
There was the last of several meetings yesterday that I sat on, with Ken Rich representing 
the City on the MTC ABAG Legislative Committee that is reviewing all the State legislation. 
We plowed through another five or six pieces of legislations yesterday in a four-hour 
meeting. The MTC ABAG staff has done an incredible job of analyzing these legislations. 
The committee is not taking a position but rather all comments are being recorded and 
those comments will be passed on to the boards of the MTC Commission and the ABAG 
Board to consider when they take a position on all these bills which is coming up over the 
next month or six weeks or so. So, again when we have time and more detail, I can talk 
about some of the detailed comments, but in general there was a pretty broad diversity of 
comments from the committee about many of these pieces of legislation. Obviously, SB 50 
listed a lot of comments but many of the other bills did, too. Particularly the one related to 
the regional affordable housing entity that is proposed on one of the bills and several 
others as well, which we can get into more detail. But I just wanted to report to you that 
those meetings are largely wrapped up. We are holding a time at the end of May to kind of 
have a final meeting, if needed, to review changes to any of the bills. That concludes my 
comments. Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Richards: 
So, one question. I know we're going to review CASA today and I don't know whether 
there's 12 or 15 bills. But you said last week or two weeks ago, there's like 36 substantial 
bills. Will we be able to have an understanding with the other, the balance of those are? 
 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I can, I forgot to do that. I can pass on the – there’s a kind of a spreadsheet of the 36 
that the MTC/ABAG staff has looked at in somewhat more detail and I can get that for you. 
 
Commissioner Richards: 

San Francisco Planning Commission