12. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Commissioners, I wanted to spend a couple minutes, if I might, talking 
about kind of the current status of Proposition M and the allocation and how we are going 
to bring the projects to you. The continuation of 88 Bluxome today was partially or largely 
in response to a request by the developer to do something slightly different. So, as you 
recall, we have been taking Central SoMa projects in phases in the order that they are 
ready to be reviewed. The 88 Bluxome project sponsor came to us and asked if we would 
consider approving that, if you would consider approving that project in one phase with a 
slightly smaller project. And when we looked at that, we asked them to look at -- and part 
of the reason for that is because this building, their project is really designed as one 
building, it kind of looks like two, but in reality it is just one building. That was coupled 
with a recent analysis that we started looking at the unused allocation of office space from 
past approvals and I have asked the Zoning Administrator Teague to start looking at that. 
And as it turns out, there are -- there could be as much as between four and 500,000 
square feet of space that is largely the result of projects not building as much as they were 
approved to build. And a couple of those projects are quite – couple of those could be as 
much as 100,000 square feet each but they built smaller than they were approved for. So, 
when we looked at the request of 88 Bluxome developers along with the fact that we 
might have four to 500,000 square feet, we are in fact able to still move forward with the 
proposal that we have planned in the fall to allow phase one of all the Central SoMa 
projects to move forward as well as other projects that have come to you asking for 
approval. So, if I might, and again, I will put this all in the form of a memo, we are still 
gathering all the data, but just for your purposes and the public, and the project sponsors, I 
wanted to just outline what is coming in the next couple of phases.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission