10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Thank you. Commissioners, no new announcements except to say happy New Year, and I 
think I was incorrect in my, the informational hearing I mentioned. I think, is February 21st 
not in January. We'll try to see if we can get a hearing for the DBI Commission before you 
have to act on that ordinance.   
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 
181046 Planning Code - HOME-SF Project Authorization. Sponsors: Tang; Safai. Staff: 
Ikezoe.  
 
First on the land use agenda was the ordinance, sponsored by Supervisors Tang and 
Safaí to revise the HOME SF program. This ordinance amended the approval process 
for HOME SF projects and the fee schedule. Commissioners you hear this item on 
December 6, 2018 and voted to approve with modifications. Those modifications 
included: 
 
1. To combine the excess parking conditional use findings into the HOME-SF 
approval process for projects seeking parking in excess to what is principally 
permitted. 
2. And to allow the Tiered Home SF program to remain until a replacement is 
adopted by the Board.  
 
Both amendments were included in the ordinance. 
 
At the hearing Supervisor Peskin was sitting in for Supervisor Safai. Supervisors Kim 
and Tang were both present for their very last Board hearing. Supervisor Kim 
questioned whether or not we should be making it easier to allow these projects to 
seek additional parking, given that we had just removed minimum parking standards, 
and Supervisor Peskin asked that a definition be added to the code to define 
development application.  
 
Tang agreed to add the definition to the code, but kept I the parking provision. The 
committee then voted to forward the item to the full board with a positive 
recommendation.  
 
• 
181061 Planning Code - Conversion of Medical Cannabis Dispensary Uses to Cannabis 
Retail Uses. Sponsor: Office of Cannabis. Staff: Christensen.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 10, 2019 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
Next on the agenda was the Office of Cannabis’s proposed amendments to Planning 
Code Section 190. This ordinance would basically allow several long pending Cannabis 
Retail applications to move forward. Commissioners you heard this item on November 
15, 2018 and voted to recommend approval with modifications. Those modifications 
clarified what type of projects were grandfathered and also required pending 
applications exempt from the 600-foot rule to go through the CU process. The 
ordinance was amended to include both amendments. 
 
At the hearing several MCD and Cannabis Retail applicants spoke in favor of the 
ordained while neighbors of one proposed MCD spoke in opposition. 
 
Vice Chair Kim moved that this Ordinance be AMENDED, by striking language 
regarding the State licensing authority. The language was not substantive since it only 
referenced existing state law, but made some cannabis applicant uncomfortable. 
 
The item was then forwarded to the Full Board as amended with a positive 
recommendation. 
 
• 
180916 Planning, Administrative Codes - Zoning Controls and Fees in the C-3-R 
(Downtown Retail) District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Butkus. Item 3 
 
Finally the Land Use Committee heard Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would 
amend the retail controls in the Union Square area. Commissioners, you heard this 
item on October 18 and voted to recommend approval with modifications. The most 
significant modifications you proposed was to allow non-retail on the third floor, 
which the current draft of the ordinance prohibited.  
 
At the land use hearing several speakers from the Union Square area spoke in favor of 
allowing non retail uses on the third floor. Supervisor Peskin did propose amendments 
that would allow this with CU authorization, which also included findings for the CU. 
Supervisor Peskin also proposed increase the fee amount a few dollars per square foot. 
As such the amended ordained needs to come back to this commission for its review 
and comment.  
 
Supervisor Peskin did split the file so that the changes not needing additional 
Commission review could move forward. The item was then continued to next week’s 
Land Use hearing so that the proposed modifications to the unduplicated file could be 
drafted. The duplicated file was amended and was re-referred back to the Planning 
Commission.  
 
Full Board  
• 
Supervisor Norman Yee was elected Board President. 
 
Introductions 
• 
Finally, Supervisor Peskin introduced an ordinance this week that would amend the 
Planning Code’s demolition rules and require a CU for any residential addition that 
increases the floor area by more than 10%. Staff received its first copy of this ordinance 
on Tuesday and is in the process of analyzing the proposed changes. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 10, 2019 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, the Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered two items that 
may be of interest to the Commission. The Board heard an appeal of the building permit 
for an addition to 521 Los Palmas Drive. Last July the Planning Commission heard this item 
as a DR Request from the adjacent property owner. At that hearing, Commission 
unanimously approved the project as proposed. The permit was appealed by a different 
neighbor to the rear, who raised concerns about construction impacts and privacy. The 
Board of Appeals unanimously denied the appeal, noting that the project complied with 
the Planning Code and Residential Design guidelines. The Board also heard an appeal of 
the Building Permit Application for an addition to 1889 through 1891 Green Street. Last 
March, you heard this item as a DR request from the adjacent property owner, with 
concerns that the project would block two property line windows in their dining room and 
kitchen. At that hearing, the Commission took DR to make a minor change to the interior 
layout to reinforce the separation of units. The permit was appealed by the same party as 
the DR request. The Board noted that the appellant's property was a corner lot which 
afforded units in the building’s substantial light and air. The Board also noted that the 
appellant undertook a significant interior remodel, which included relocating one dwelling 
unit to the basement after being made aware of the subject project, and had the ability to 
design their project in a way to address any light and air concerns. While the Board 
supported the project, they did grant the appeal and imposed a condition that an outdoor 
movie screen be removed from a roof deck at the front of the property. The movie screen 
was located behind a parapet on the front of the building. So, irrelevant to the appellant's 
request.  
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did not meet yesterday.