8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, good afternoon. Two things today. First, I wanted to introduce you to the 
summer interns who are here in the audience. I wanted to ask them to all stand up for a 
couple of minutes. We have a total -- it's a 12-week program that started on June 3rd and 
end at the end of August. There are a total of 23 interns this summer, which includes high 
school interns from the city's Youth Works program. I just wanted to tell you about some of 
the projects they're working on. They’re working on everything from PDR implementation 
guidelines to the Better Roofs Ordinance, Climate Resiliency Programming, Environmental 
Justice Policies in the General Plan, the Southeast Mobility Strategy Guidelines For Public -- 
for POPOS, guidelines for and template for institutional master plans, and the Housing 
Affordability Strategy, the Women’s Rights Historic Context Statement and the Citywide 
Historic Survey. As you know, as part of the 12-week program, each intern is paired with a 
planner who mentors their work. There are also weekly discussions, site visits and special 
presentations led by staff members. In the final week, the interns will present their work to 
staff during a weeklong noontime lecture series. The Department is very appreciative of all 
the work and we are very excited about the program. And as you know, many of our staff 
started as interns with the Department, so we think it's a great training ground for the 
department and we get some really great work for the Department as a result. So, we 
welcome you all to the Department.  
 
Secondly, Commissioners, I have a bitter sweet announcement. I think, as you know, 
Andrea Green is leaving the Department. Tomorrow is her last day. Andrea's been with the 
Department for 24 years, and for fifteen of those, the last fifteen of those years has been 
the Executive Assistant to the Director. So, which means that she has been my assistant for 
the entire time I've been here. We will miss her greatly. Andrea has become the kind of 
heart and soul of the department in so many ways. And I think one of the really great 
assets that she has brought to the Department is her ability to kind of treat everyone with 
equal respect and kindness no matter who they are, no matter how upset they are. And 
she is one of the most important, kind of front doors to the Department, if you will, where 

San Francisco Planning Commission