9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Jeff Joslin: 
First, in response to Commissioner Moore's question about State Street, a relatively modest 
project, no letters or comments received, either in opposition or support. For that reason it 
was placed on Consent. Of course, that could be modified at the Commission’s will. No 
report from the director himself but I did want to take just a fleeting moment to thank you 
for your extraordinary and protracted service today on what hopefully will be the last duel 
hearing for some time. So thank you for that end of the year gift. No other comments.   
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
 
This week, the Land Use Committee considered the mayor and Supervisor Haney's 
ordinance that would allow certain interim activities at development sites that are 
proposing demolition. Commissioners, you heard this item way back on April 25th of this 
year and voted to recommend approval with modifications. The Commissioner’s proposed 
modifications were: 1) to amend the requirement to increase residential density and 
instead require an increase in residential density only if there's an existing residential on 
the site; and 2) to clarify section 205.5 to clarify that retail use refers to use category retail 
and service. Public comment at the Land Use Committee for this item was positive and 
with about half a dozen people speaking in support of the item. At the hearing, most of 
the discussion focused on the types of uses allowed as interim activities. Originally the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 19, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
ordinance allowed any entertainment arts and recreation use, any social service or 
philanthropic facility use, any homeless shelter use, any agriculture or beverage processing 
1, light manufacturing or metal working use permitted either conditionally or principally in 
a PDR-1 district, any retail or institutional use regardless of use size and any use principally 
or conditionally permitted in the subject zoning district. And finally, any and or any office 
so long as such office space is at least 5,000 gross square feet and equal or greater square 
footage space is established for arts activities and/or light manufacturing use.  
 
 
Supervisor Peskin made a motion to only include uses that are principally permitted in the 
subject zoning district and strike all other allowed uses. Supervisor Safai questioned 
whether this was too limiting and proposed keeping general entertainment uses and arts 
activities. There was also a discussion about keeping the office provision and they invoked 
the general entertainment and arts activities were kept in the amended version but the 
Planning Commission’s recommended modifications did not make it into the amended 
ordinance. The Supervisors did indicate that they would continue to discuss this item now 
that it has been forwarded to the full board and further amendments are likely at the 
Board hearing.  
 
 
At the full board this week, Supervisor Fewer's 100% Affordable Housing and Educator 
Housing Streamlining ordinance passed its second read and the Zoning Map Planning 
Code Amendment and Development Agreement for the Flower Mart passed their first 
read. And that's all I have for you today.   
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. They adopted a 
recommendation for approval for establishing the American Indian Cultural District. They 
recommended approval for a number of legacy business applications and they adopted a 
resolution endorsing the Racial and Social Equity Action Plan for the phase 1 that you have 
already adopted.