4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director:   
Thank you, Jonas. Commissioners, I just wanted to also mention the press conference. And 
in particular, I wanted to thank two staff people who have been really instrumental for 
making this happen, Marcelle Boudreaux and Natalia Kwiatkowska. Natalia is now our 24/7 
or I guess at least eight or nine hours a day on ADU. She's our ADU person. And one of the 
very innovative things they developed was this idea of a roundtable where all departments 
are reviewing the plans at the same time. And that's become a very interesting model. We 
were able to get through over 900 units that are in the backlog in six months. So maybe 
less than six months actually. So, I'm really excited about that. we are seeing new 
applications at the rate of about 500 a year in ADUs and 90% of those are -- will be rent-
controlled, because they're being built in rent-controlled buildings. So, it is providing not 
only more housing supply, but a housing supply that's more affordable than the typical 
new market rate buildings that are built. So, we’re really excited about that and we're 
looking forward to kind of using this as a model for how we streamline some of our other 
work. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Richards: 
Exactly what I was going to ask was, would this be a great model to replicate for non-
housing production because things tend to take long.   
 
President Melgar:    
Through the chair, please, Commissioner. Okay.   
 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
 
Land Use Committee  
• 
No Planning Items  
 
Full Board  
• 
180003 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 460 Arguello Boulevard (aka 
Theodore Roosevelt Middle School). Sponsor: HPC. Staff: Ferguson. Passed First Read  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 28, 2019 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 7 
 
 
• 
180005 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2728 Bryant Street (aka Sunshine 
School). Sponsor: HPC. Staff: Ferguson. Passed First Read  
 
• 
181045 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 170 Valencia Street. Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: 
Butkus. Passed First Read  
 
• 
190108 Planning Code - Conversion of Medical Cannabis Dispensary Uses to Cannabis 
Retail Uses. Sponsor: City Administrator. Staff: Christensen. Passed First Read  
 
• 
181247 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental Review - 
2831-2833 Pierce Street. Staff: Cisneros and Walker. Continued one week at the 
request of the district supervisor.