9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
AnMarie Rodgers: 
This is AnMarie Rodgers standing in for Director Hillis today. And I was going to share with 
you a little bit about our intern program that we have. This is important program that we 
have done for a few years managed by our senior planner, Tina Tam. And this year we have 
15 interns that are full time and paid. Because of COVID effects, they are working remotely. 
And we have shortened the internship just down to nine weeks this is year. We pair them 
with a planner, and they are tasked to work on a specific project and develop that and give 
presentations at the end of their program which is going to end the week of August 17th. We 
would like to express our -- how happy we are to have them here and appreciative of the 
work they're going to be performing, and we also like to invite these commissioners to 
participate in hearing the intern's -- [Inaudible]   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
It is hard to tell, but I am not sure if it is my computer or AnMarie seems as though -- AnMarie 
on my end, anyway, froze.   
 
Commissioner:    
I also see that. She’s – 
 
Commissioner Diamond:    
Yes, frozen for me, too.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
So unfortunately, AnMarie, you were cutting in and out on me. I thought it was my 
computer, so I moved closer to my router and it didn't help the issue. For your record, 
Commissioner Moore, I was informed that on other people's computers I was clear and 
audible without interruption. AnMarie, I am not sure if you can come back and try to 
reiterate any of those comments.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I wanted to welcome our intern students. Over the past year, Commissioners made 
themselves available and also participated at the final presentations when these students 
were kind of speaking to their work in the Department. I regret that you are all here without 
the true ability to interact with everybody in an exciting department and learn also from 
seeing our city directly. I hope you are all healthy and we hope we can meet you online at 
some point. Thank you.   
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 23, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Good afternoon Commissioners. Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. This week there 
were quite a few items on the Land Use agenda. The first item was the Committee 
considered Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that would allow arts activities and social service 
or philanthropic facilities as temporary uses. Commissioners, you heard this item on June 
25th and voted to approve it with modifications. Those modifications included, one, to define 
COVID-19 relief and recovery uses that are eligible for the proposed temporary use 
authorization; create a fee waiver for COVID-19 relief and recovery uses seeking a temporary 
use authorization; extend the initial approval period for the temporary use authorization to 
two years; and extend the renewal at the discretion of Planning Director for an additional 
two years. The Land Use Committee voiced their support for all the Commission's 
recommended modifications. However, since some of the proposed amendments are 
substantive, the Committee voted to continue the item one week to July 27th so that those 
the amendments could be added to the ordinance. The Committee then considered 
Supervisor Ronen's ordinance that would allow the parking lot behind the El Capitan Theatre 
to remain for another five years without obtaining conditional use authorization. 
Commissioners, you heard this last week and unanimously recommended approval. No one 
spoke up during public comment and once public comment was closed, the item was 
recommended to the Full Board.  
 
Next, the Committee considered Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that proposed to prohibit 
office uses in UMU Zoning Districts and require conditional use authorization for various 
office like service uses. This Commission heard this item on April 23rd and voted to approve 
the ordinance with modifications. Those modifications included one to limit the condition 
on office uses within the UMU to the Mission Area Plan; maintain existing controls on 
professional service, financial service and medical service; and three, include a 
grandfathering clause in the ordinance. At the Land Use hearing the community expressed 
overall support of the ordinance. Questions centered on the appeal hearing date for one 
project potentially affected by the office use prohibition. Supervisor Ronen clarified that the 
appeal hearing date is scheduled to occur before the likely effective date of the ordinance. 
Public comment was overwhelmingly in support of the ordinance citing that it would help 
preserve spaces for art, social service and employment serving local residents. Four 
members of the public did comment on the need to include grandfathering clause. After 
public comment, the Committee voted unanimously to amend the ordinance to limit the 
prohibition on office uses in the Mission Area Plan. The other Planning Commission 
recommendations notably the grandfathering clause were not added to the ordinance. The 
Committee then voted unanimously to recommend the ordinance as amended to the Full 
Board.  
 
Next, the Committee considered the initiation of the landmark status for the Zakheim 
murals located at the UCSF Parnassus campus. This is the first step for landmark designation 
initiated by a board member. During the hearing there were presentations by SF Heritage 
on background of the murals and artists and by UCSF on the status of the murals’ 
preservation. There was some public comment mainly over stewardship of the city’s 
collection of new deal art which is one of the largest in the country. Supervisor Peskin 
acknowledged that this landmark status would be honorific due to the status of it being a 
UC Project. And nonetheless, the Committee sent the item to the Full Board with a positive 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 23, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
recommendation. Should the Board do decide to initiate landmark designation, the Historic 
Preservation Commission will have 90 days to act on it once it has been transmitted to the 
Department. This item however will not be heard by this Commission. And then finally, the 
Committee took up the various legislative amendments associated with the Market and 
Octavia Plan, also known as the Hub. You may recall that this item was continued from last 
week’s meeting. Commissioners, you heard this item on May 21st and recommended 
approval and directed the Department and the Board to pursue a Nexus study to establish 
the community facility's fee. In response to this direction, the mayor introduced substitute 
legislation on June 9th with new community facilities fee amendment.  During public 
comment at the Land Use hearing, there were generally two sentiments from the 
commenters. Those that were in support of the plan as proposed by the commission and 
those in support of a pause on the rest of the legislation until further equity work is 
complete. After public comment, Supervisor Preston proposed to duplicate the file. Even 
proposed the amendments to the zoning map ordinance which would limit height increase 
to three sites – 30 Van Ness, 98 Franklin, and 10 South Van Ness, and retain the existing NCT-
3 Zoning. His other amendments included impact fee calculation clarifications and changing 
the period from annual to quarterly for the community facility's fee. After those 
amendments were made, the Board forwarded all the items except the Hub Housing 
Sustainability District to the Full Board on July 21st.   
 
At the Full Board this week, Supervisor Peskin's ordinance that would allow the Central 
Station to expand in the North Beach Special Use District passed its second read. And the 
Board also compared the CEQA appeal for 743 Vermont Street. This project includes a rear 
addition, a new deck and other interior modifications. In addition, the project would include 
the legalization of an existing bathroom and three storage rooms on the ground floor level 
to comply with a notice of violation. Commissioners, you heard this item on January 2, 2020 
as a discretionary review and voted to not take DR and approve the project as proposed. The 
appellant’s contention was that the CEQA determination is invalid because the revised 
project description omitted that the unauthorized dwelling was being legalized. Staff’s 
response to this was that the work to construct the three storage rooms and the full bath on 
the ground floor is being legalized based a notice of violation. However, the space is not 
being used as an unauthorized dwelling unit and the owner has no intention of adding an 
ADU to their ground floor space. Thus, the CEQA project description was valid and the CEQA 
determination should stand. During the hearing, Rachel Schuett, Environmental Planning 
staff, presented the Department's position and was assisted by Carly Grob who handled the 
questions about the Department's accessory dwelling unit program. In the end, the Board 
voted unanimously to uphold the exemption and denied the appeal.  
 
And then finally, the stripped-down version of the amendments of the Hub passed its first 
read at the Full Board. And based on Commissioner Diamond's comments, I don't have all 
that information for you. Perhaps a separate presentation on the impacts of the Board’s 
action can be done by the planners that are assigned to it. And I am available for questions.  
Thank you. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I did want to announce for the benefit of the public and the Commission to make you aware 
that the Planning Department is moving. By the end of August or even mid-August we will 
have moved from 1650 Mission Street to our new offices at 49 South Van Ness. When we will 
be allowed to actually occupy those offices is yet to be determined.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 23, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 14