7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
So, one, congratulations Christine on your new position. It is a big loss for us at Planning 
but a great finishing for you on a promotion, so congratulations. We will certainly miss you.  
 
Welcome back, I guess, to Commissioner Tanner, who was with us in the Planning 
Department and is now back. Obviously in a different role, but we are extremely happy 
about that and looking forward to working with you.  
 
I also want to recognize and congratulate former Commissioner Melgar who appears to 
have been elected as District 7 Supervisor.  So, we look forward to serving with her on the 
commission. So, looking forward to working with her on the Board.  
 
I also wanted to note election-related that Prop H passed or is passing. It's got 62% of the 
vote. So, it will pass and becomes effective when the election is certified. So, I'd like to 
schedule an informational hearing here with you to talk about the details because it does 
change and streamline some of our processes in neighborhood commercial districts. So, 
we'll do that over the next couple of weeks. The basics of it is it requires a 30-day process 
for principally permitted uses to be acted upon. It reduces some of the noticing for 
principally permitted uses in neighborhood commercial districts. And it generally makes, 
you know, many of the uses we see, in those districts principally permitted that may have 
been conditionally permitted before things like general entertainment, movie theaters, 
community facilities, restaurants, limited restaurants, art activities, philanthropic and 
social services. So, we'll come back and give you more detail on that.  
 
I should also note that Mayor Breed has asked us to start working on making the Shared 
Spaces permanent within the Department and within the City. So, we're working with 
SFMTA and DPW on that. And some time too, we'll come back to you, it may require 
commission actions to make that permanent. 
 
Also, finally, I wanted to note that ABAG has opened up public comment on the RHNA 
allocation. So, the ABAG executive board approves the methodology for allocating the 
region’s RHNA housing goals to the various governments and jurisdictions. As we've talked 
about before, these numbers are increasing over two times what they were before but that 
public comment period to comment on the methodology is open and ends later this 
month on November 27th. And that’s all I have if there are no questions, that's my report.  
 
President Koppel:    
I think commissioner Moore has something.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 5, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Yes. You were speaking about Prop H. I was wondering because I did not see it. Is there a 
social and equity component to Prop H?  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
You know, specifically is there something in the legislation that addresses social and racial 
equity? I don't believe so. I mean I think, though, part of the rationale and the reason for 
Prop H was to make the process kind of simpler and easier and not require a small business 
that may otherwise require a permit expediter or going through an elaborate CU process 
or requiring a lawyer to navigate that process in an easier fashion. And I think that in and 
of itself will help many of the small businesses we see navigate that city process.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
And I think that is a fabulous goal and I wholly support that. I believe though that we owe 
it to ourselves as commissioners as well as a department to have at least somewhere in our 
discussion a look at social and racial equity component in that discussion.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I should also note some of the provisions in Prop H don't apply to the Mission, in particular 
in 24th Street, in recognition of the unique circumstance’s kind of in the Mission.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
My second question to you, Director Hillis, in the ABAG restated RHNA goals, is there any 
provision for corporate impact to change and state population exodus, vacancy, etcetera?  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, it's being factored into the broader planned bay area, but as you know, these are 
long-term numbers and long-term goals. So Planned Bay Area, it looks at 2050. The RHNA 
allocations themselves cover the period 2023 to 2031. So I know it was discussed during 
the ABAG meeting, but there is also a recognition that these are longer term goals and 
hard to kind of look at kind of the shorter term goals of COVID and what is going to happen 
in the next few years as part of that under taking.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
Okay. Thank you.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yup.  
 
Commissioner Imperial:    
I have a question, Director Hillis, regarding the ABAG. You said that the comments end by 
November 27th.  How can, is that, how’s the public comment – how can that access the 
public comment?  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
So, you can access it through ABAG's websites. It's in comments kind of the normal way. 
You can comment. I mean people did comment at hearing that ABAG had. There will be a 
future hearing to adopt that methodology that members of the public can comment on, 
but through e-mail or letters, you know, it's available to comment on ABAG’s website.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 5, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial:    
Perhaps if it's possible for our Planning Department to have that in our website as well. 
Coz, I mean, many people may not be accessing ABAG website.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Great idea. We'll do that.  
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners. Aaron Starr, Planning Department Staff. While you were 
out on break last week, the Board did meet. There were no items in the Land Use 
impacting Planning.  
 
While the full Board of Supervisors, they unanimously approved Mayor Breed's 
appointment of Rachael Tanner to the Planning Commission. Congratulations, 
Commissioner Tanner. They also continued the appeal for 617 Sanchez to November 17th.  
 
This week at the Land Use Committee, they considered the landmark designation for the 
History of Medicine in California Frescoes, located at the UCSF Parnassus campus. 
Supervisor Peskin is the sponsor of this legislation with supervisor Safai as co-sponsor. 
They considered this designation on August 19th of this year after receiving the resolution 
initiating designation from the Board which was initiated by Supervisor Peskin. The 
Frescoes are historically significant for their association with the works progress 
administration federal art project displaying high artistic value and distinctive 
characteristics of new deal era art. And as an excellent example of the work of a master 
artist and muralist, Barnard Zakheim, the period of significance is from 1936 to 1938. 
Supervisors Peskin and Safai both expressed their full support for the landmark 
designation and noted how important it was to the history of San Francisco and California 
that the Frescoes be preserved and accessible to the public. There are two public 
comments including SF Heritage which expressed support for the designation and 
requested that UCSF commit to relocating the Frescoes on the Parnassus campus and 
make them accessible to public. The Committee then forwarded the ordinance to the full 
Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
Finally, at the full Board this week, the Board continued both CEQA appeals for MTAs MUNI 
rails service adjustment and associated street parking changes. I suspect their attention 
was elsewhere on that day. And that's all I have for you today. Thank you. 
 
 
 Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I did not receive a report from the Board of Appeals, but the Historic Preservation 
Commission did meet yesterday. And they considered the draft Environmental Impact 
Report and the preservation alternatives associated with 447 Battery Street. This is a draft 
EIR that will come before you next week, November 12th. They also adopted a 
recommendation for approval with modifications as amended directing staff to continue 
working on the area boundaries and with the community on the American Indian Cultural 
District Expansion ordinance. And finally, they adopted a recommendation for approval as 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 5, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 11 
 
amended for the State Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls that you will be taking 
up later today. And their one amendment was a reference to the Architectural Review 
Standards and to make sure that those were updated to prevent any conflicts with the 
state controls.