7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. I just wanted to give you a quick update on our budget. 
We had to submit a three month report to the Controller’s Office and they're compiling a 
broader three month report for the City, but again, revenue’s not looking good. We're 
projecting about a $19 million shortfall in revenues. That’s on a total revenue budget of 
about $45 million. Now this may change as they kind of – as we move forward in the year. 
There are two factors at play and they're kind of driving this lower than expected. Phase 1 
obviously is the economy and the downturn; we’re seeing less applications than in the 
prior year. Also, working with DBI and the Permit Center, because of COVID, we've limited 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 22, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
the number of permits we are actually taking in at the Permit Center. So that is leading to 
additional reduction in our revenue. So, we'll keep you – you know, we're working with 
DBI to try to expand the number of permits we take in on a daily basis. So, we’re hoping 
that will help with our revenue numbers. And we’ll certainly keep you apprise of that, but I 
wanted to give you a sense of where we are currently and what we projected to the 
Controller's Office. And that concludes my report.   
 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
• 201138 Initiating Landmark Designation - Phyllis Lyon and Del Martin House. Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff: Boudreaux  
 
At this week’s Land Use, the Committee considered initiating the landmark designation for 
the Lyon Martin House. Although not significant for its architecture, the Lyon Martin house 
is significant for its place in Queer history as the long-time residence for Phillis Lyon and 
Del Martin, two pioneers in the movement for LGBTQ equality.  This is just the initiation, 
and the landmark designation will need to go before the Historic Preservation Commission 
for review and approval, followed by another Land Use hearing and vote at the Board. The 
initiation was recommended to the Full Board as a committee report.  
 
FULL Board 
 
• 200997 Approving/Disapproving Conditional Use Authorization - 2001-37th Avenue. 
Items 7-9 
 
 
At the Full Board this week, the Board once again considered the CU appeal for the field 
lights at St Ignatius. If you recall, two weeks ago the Board held a hearing on both the 
CEQA Appeal and the CU Appeal. The Board voted to deny the CEQA appeal but continued 
the CU appeal to the next Board hearing. This week, Supervisor Mar made a motion to 
amend the conditions on the CU and further restrict the usage of the lights. 
 
 
One new condition requires that the Field lights may only be used Monday-Thursday and 
shall be dimmed no later than 8pm and turned off no later than 8:30pm. The Commission 
had this requirement at a ½ later, or 8:30 to turn down the lights, and 9:00 to turn them 
off.  
 
Lights will still be allowed to operate 150 nights a year, as the Commission conditioned.  
 
 
Supervisor Mar also proposed restrictions on sound systems or amplified sound, stating 
that they shall not be used past 7:30 pm. The Commission restricted the sound system to 
9:30 pm.  
 
 
Supervisor Mar did include exceptions to these limitations, as did the commission. Those 
exceptions state that for no more than 15 evenings per year, the lights may remain on until 
10:00pm on any day of the week except Sunday. Events must end by 9:30pm and lights 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 22, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
shall be dimmed by 9:30pm. The Commission allowed 20 evening per year and for the 
lights to be off by 10 with no specified dimming requirement.  
 
 
Finally, Supervisor Mar included a provision that events must be hosted by the Project 
Sponsor serving primarily St. Ignatius students and those from opposing teams. The 
Commission allowed some of these events to be hosted by affiliates of SI. 
 
These modifications were accepted and the Board voted unanimously to amend the CU. 
 
• 200908 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed Department of Public Health - Local Oversight Program Site No. 12076 
Investigation/Remediation Project (1776 Green Street). Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 
24-27 
 
• 200137 Hearing - Appeal of Final Mitigated Negative Declaration - Proposed Project at 
2417 Green Street. Special Order 3:00 PM. Items 28-31 
 
 
The Board continued both CEQA Appeals for 1776 Green Street and 2417 Green Street to 
November 17th.  
 
• 201138 Initiating Landmark Designation - Phyllis Lyon and Del Martin House] Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff: Boudreaux. Item 35 
 
 
Finally, the Board voted unanimously to initiate the landmark designation for the Lyon Dell 
House. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Thank you, Aaron. I see no questions from the Commissioners so I will move on to the 
report from the Historic Preservation Commission. There's no report from the Board of 
Appeals. The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and they adopted 
recommendations for approval of several Legacy Business Registry applicants. First, being 
Secret Studios on Cesar Chavez, Washington Vegetable on Jerrold Avenue, Iyengar Yoga 
Association of Northern California on Sutter Street, Munroe Motors on Valencia Street, Don 
Ramon's Mexican Restaurant on 11th street and Fior d’Italia on Mason Street. It then 
initiated landmark designation of the Japanese YWCA, the Issei Women's Building on 
Sutter Street. That concludes my report for the Historic Preservation Commission and 
seeing no questions from the commissioners, we can move on to general public comment.