8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just thank you for those words again. I think, it's amazing you all have been willing to jump 
in and take on major issues during extremely challenging times for us all, for all San 
Franciscans. So, thank you for continuing to push on major policy issues around Equity, 
around Housing and around Economic Recoveries. It's been a challenging year, but I think 
you've all shown – you know, we can’t stand still. We’ve got to continue to push on the 
challenges we face. So, thank you. I did want to note something we talked about earlier 
before the meeting. You may have seen the Mayor’s Budget instructions or articles on the 
Mayor’s Budget instructions. The Mayor's Office has asked us to come to them with a 7.5% 
General Fund reduction and then a 2.5% contingency, so, in essence, a plan for a 10% 
reduction. We'll be coming to you, and have a series of meetings or a couple of meetings at 
the Commission, I think, one January 21st or the 14th. So next month, we'll start to talk to you 
about that. And we’ve got the General Fund reduction to deal with, as well as, the impact 
that we're seeing on our fee revenue. So, we’ll talk more about that. And that’s all I have to 
report. Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I have a question that probably echoes other people’s question as well. There is no way of 
avoiding the mandate for that reduction. If we would find some convincing arguments that 
we can really only contribute 6% and maybe have a number in the General Fund. There’s no 
way of avoiding the bar she has set. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Correct. I mean, I think if we can, you know, fill that reduction from other sources of revenues 
that’s a way to do it, but the City is facing a $650 million shortfall over the next two years. 
So, it’s you know, obviously incredibly challenging across the entire City. And every 
department is being asked to carry their weight and come up with the General Fund 
reduction along the same lines we’re being asked to do. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
So, the answer is no. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 17, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Yes, correct. No. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Do you know off the top of your head Director Hillis, what percentage of our Department’s 
Budget does come from General Fund? I understand we do collect quite a bit of revenue 
from fees and permits and things like that. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
It’s fairly low. It’s under 20%. So, it’s about, you know, $6-7 million on a $50 million budget. 
So, the majority of our revenues come from fees. Which, you know, at least for the first half 
of this year or the first 5 ½ months of this year are, you know, we’re seeing fewer that are 
lower more than 10%. We anticipate that to change. Obviously, we’re in a unique period 
here. So, that’s going to be part of our challenge, is estimating what our fee revenue will be 
for next year. 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Just another topic, the Prop H implementation. Do we anticipate hearing more about how 
that’s going? Maybe in the new year. I know there’s a 30-day Executive Directive and calls 
for updates regarding that. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Absolutely. We’ll come back and talk to you during Director’s Report and we’ll calendar an 
item. But we’re obviously, we’ll mention that now we’re working with other agencies to 
meet those guidelines. Thank you. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. This week, the 
Land Use Committee considered an ordinance sponsored by the Mayor and Supervisor 
Mandelman to extend the deadline for the NCDs to convert to Cannabis Retail. 
Commissioners, you waived your opportunity to hear this item because it was essentially 
fixing an oversight from your previous ordinance that you approved last year. That 
ordinance extended the temporary sales of adult use cannabis at NCDs. The Office of 
Cannabis presented at the hearing and there was no public comment. The Committee then 
made some clerical amendments and recommended the ordinance to the full Board as a 
committee report.  
 
 
Next, the Committee held a hearing on strategies the City can pursue to maximize creation 
of affordable housing on public lands. The hearing was called by Supervisor Preston with 
the purpose of discussing housing on public sites in the wake of the Balboa Reservoir 
approval. They want to have a better understanding of the process and criteria for providing 
affordable housing on public land and to provide this explanation to its constituents. During 
the hearing, OEWD and MOHCD staff did the presentation while Planning staff was available 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 17, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
for questions. Staff described the difference between surplus properties and joint 
development sites. The development criteria that MOHCD uses to determine appropriate 
sites for 100% Affordable Housing and also provided a case study of the 1950 Mission Street. 
During the hearing, all the Supervisors expressed concern about the need to meet affordable 
housing goals, tracking units on public site, land banking, ensuring we make the most of the 
land resources we have, taking stock of surplus public sites and the RHNA goals were 
discussed as well. It was over 2 ½ hours of public comment on this hearing. The testimony 
was primarily by members of the public expressing concern of the lack of affordable housing 
in the City. A future hearing will be called to discuss surplus property and uncover what it is 
and isn’t on the surplus property list. 
 
 
At the full Board this week, the landmark designation for The Royal Baking Company at 4767 
Mission passed its second read. And Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance for Light Manufacturing 
and Wholesale Storage Uses in the 24th Street-Mission Street Neighborhood Commercial 
District passed its first read. The Board also heard the appeal for 552 Hill Street. This appeal 
was actually withdrawn so the CU is upheld. The project sponsor has revised the project to 
negate the need for CU by keeping the two code compliant units. Also, on the docket was a 
CEQA appeal for 1776 Green Street. The proposed development project is a 2-story vertical 
addition and a change of use from an automobile repair use to 5 residential units. This 
project has a long history of several continuances but was also might put on hold on 
February of this year pending the outcome of the CEQA appeal. The appeal of the CEQA 
exemption for this project was actually related to the remediation work beneath the 
sidewalk work in front of the property.  
 
 
At this week’s board hearing, the appeal was withdrawn and the CEQA exemption upheld. 
Our Environmental team still needs to issue a new CEQA clearance for the development 
project at which point it can come back to this Commission for review and approval. The 
date of the new hearing is still pending. Supervisor Peskin intro -- oh and then finally, I’m 
sorry, the Mayor’s and Mandelman’s Cannabis Use ordinance passed its first read.  
 
 
Finally, Supervisor Peskin introduced an 18-month interim control that would require 
conditional use authorization for projects that do not maximize density in RC, RM, and RTO 
Zoning Districts. The controls would allow for an expansion of up to 25% for existing 
buildings so long as those units did not exceed 2,000 sq ft. As it is an interim control, it would 
not come to you for review. However, any permanent controls would. This item will be 
considered by the Board in the new year and apply to any pending projects. And that 
concludes my report and I just want to wish you a very happy holiday. And hoping that 2021 
is better than this year. Thank you very much. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Thank you, Mr. Starr for that report. On behalf of the Deputy Zoning Administrator, I do have 
a report for the Board of Appeals. They met last night and there are two items to report. First, 
Tina Chang was sworn in as a Commissioner last week and attended her first hearing last 
night. Commissioner Chang was appointed by Board President Norman Yee. And she 
previously worked as a Senior Planner with the Planning Department from 2013 through 
2017. Congratulations, Commissioner Chang. Second, the Board heard two appeals of a 
building permit application for an addition at 2515 Broadway. The Planning Commission 
heard two DR request for this permit in September of 2018 and at that hearing, took DR and 
removed one window from the side wall of the building to address the privacy concerns of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 17, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 11 
 
one of the DR requestors. The appellants raised a variety of issues including allegations that 
the permit resulted in the demolition of the building lacks sufficient structural details and 
that the proposed windows would impact their privacy. The Board found that the permit 
was properly approved and code compliant and unanimously upheld the permit and denied 
the appeals.  
 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission met yesterday as well. They adopted their 2021 
Hearing Schedule and reviewed and commented the Preservation Alternatives in advance 
of publication of the draft Environmental Impact Report of the project at 770 Woolsey Street 
and that will eventually come before you all, Commissioners. Among other items, the most 
significant was an informational presentation of the Golden Gate Observation Wheel by the 
Rec & Park staff. And it centered primarily around the impacts of the lights associated with 
it and as well as the noise from the generator required to operate it. As well as the relief that 
it provided neighborhoods in this COVID centered era we’re living in.