7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Thank you very much for your words about Bob Passmore. He certainly 
was a legend in the Department and in the City and our condolences go out to his family.  
 
I wanted to mention that the Mayor nominated Rachael Tanner to fill Commissioner 
Johnson’s vacant seat on the Commission. Many of you know her. She's been a member of 
the Board of Appeals for the last couple of years. She is Assistant Director of Planning and 
Development Services in Palo Alto. She worked for the Planning Department here for a 
couple years working on the Excelsior Neighborhood Strategies. She was also a legislative 
aide with the Board of Supervisors. So, the next steps will be for the Board's committee to 
take up her nomination and we expect that to happen in the next week or so. That's my 
report. Thank you.   
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use 
 
• 
200701 Building Code - Mandating New Construction Be All-Electric. Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff:  Small. Item 1 
This week’s Land Use Committee did not have a Planning Code change but did 
discuss something that will impact this department and how we treat ground floor 
spaces. 
 
The Committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would require all 
new construction in San Francisco to be all electric. The need is clear, 37% of the City’s 
Green House Gases are attributed to the use of natural gas in buildings. Reducing the 
use of carbon-based energy is key stopping climate change, and to making San 
Francisco a greener and more sustainable city. 
 
However, a side effect of going all electric is that buildings will need to be designed 
to accommodate more transformers. As I’m sure this commission is aware, 
transformers have been a challenge from a design standpoint, particular with regards 
to retail storefronts and activation. In the grand scheme of things, this is a small 
challenge, but challenges like this one will become more common as we continue to 
modify our built environment to address climate change. 
 
During the hearing, San Francisco’s Department of the Environment did most of the 
presentation along with Supervisor Mandelman. Supervisor Peskin had several 
questions about what outreach was done and to which communities. 
 
There was significant public comment on this, with many people calling into the 
hearing to express support for de carbonizing our energy systems, and others 

San Francisco Planning Commission