7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Legislative Affairs Manager: 
Land Use Committee 
• 
200673 Planning Code - Conversion of Certain Limited Restaurants to Restaurants 
- North Beach Neighborhood Special Use District.  
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Malone/Starr Item 3 
First on the Land Use agenda was Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would allow 
Limited Restaurants in the North Beach SUD to convert to Restaurants. 
Commissioners you heard this item on August 27 and voted to recommend 
approval with modifications. Last week the bulk of those modifications were 
added to the ordinance, but because the amendments were deemed substantive 
the item was continued one week. This week there was no public comment and 
after some brief remarks on the amendments from the City Attorney’s office, the 
item was unanimously recommended to the Full Board and forwarded as a 
Committee Report.  
• 
200852 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezone Certain Industrial Parcels.  
Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: D. Sanchez. 
Next the Committee considered an ordinance that this body sponsored. Known as 
the Rezoning Certain Industrial Parcels Ordinance, this ordinance re-zones various 
M-1 and M-2 parcels to primarily PDR.  These parcels largely in the industrial heart 
of District 10 and were left out of other larger past rezoning efforts. The 
Department sought to rezone them because the M-1 and M-2 zoning districts are 
outdated zoning designations that don’t adequately protect our industrial zoned 
land.  
This Commission heard this item On April 23, 2020 and voted to approve with 
modification.  The modification was to augment an existing note in the PDR table 
to further outline the FAR requirements for self-storage projects. 
 
During the hearing, the members of Land Use Committee did not offer any 
comments.  There was one comment from the public concerned about how this 
project is being linked to unrelated upzoning.  After public comment the Land Use 
Committee voted to move the item as a committee report to the Full Board with a 
positive recommendation. 
 
Full Board 
• 
200754 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental 
Review - 66 Mountain Spring Avenue. 
At the Full Board this week, the Board considered the CEQA appeal for 66 
Mountain Spring Avenue. This was an appeal of a categorical exemption for the 
demolition of a single-family home and construction of a new single-family home.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission