9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just a couple of quick items. One, I want to let you know, 
you may already know this, that President Yee of the Board of Supervisors has nominated 
Deland Chan to fill Commissioner Richard’s vacant seat. She has to go to the Committee 
and then to the Full Board. So, I think as early as two weeks, she may be able to sit on the 
Commission. She currently works at Stanford as an educator and a researcher in urban 
planning and had formally been a senior planner at CCDC. So obviously well qualified and 
familiar with our work. So, we look forward to that working its way through the process. 
Also want to let you know Eric Shaw was appointed as the Director of the Mayor’s Office of 
Community Development. He started last week.  Dan Adams had been the acting director. 
He’s got experience and background in Planning with DC and Economic Development with 
Salt Lake City. Most recently he was working for the State of California recovery efforts 
related to the fires. So, you'll no doubt see him in the coming weeks.  
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
At this week's Land Use hearing, Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that would prohibit office 
uses in the UMU District was continued to May 11th of this year. Also, in the agenda was 
Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would remove the demonstrably unaffordable 
provision from Planning code section 317. Commissioners, you heard this item on April 
23rd and voted to recommend approval with a modification to add a grandfathering 
clause. At the Land Use hearing, Supervisor Mandelman added the grandfathering clause 
and another minor clarifying amendment. In addition, Supervisor Peskin also proposed 
two amendments of his own to section 317 which would significantly expand the 
definition of what is considered a de facto demolition. That amendment would strike the 

San Francisco Planning Commission