10. 
Director’s Announcements 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 19 
 
 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director:    
Let me just add my thanks to Commissioner Melgar for all she's done on this commission 
on behalf of the staff. And I particularly want to thank you for “honchoing” this transition 
time with the new director and managing that whole process with so much grace. And I 
really very much appreciate it and I hope -- we wish you all the best in your future 
endeavors and we hope that you will keep in touch with us in the Department. And I’m 
afraid to ask what’s in those potatoes. 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  
• 191257 Planning Code - Jackson Square Special Use District - Exemption from 
Limitation on Proposed Limited Restaurant Uses. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Not Staffed.  
 
First on the Land Use agenda was Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would add a 
grandfathering clause to his previous ordinance that restricted Limited Restaurants in the 
Jackson Square SUD. Commissioners you waived your opportunity to hear this item, as it 
was every limited in scope and would only impact one pending business application. The 
Supervisor did thank the Planning Commission for waiving its opportunity to hear the 
item, and the applicant, who is planning on opening a Blue Bottle Coffee in Jackson Square 
spoke during public comment. The Committee voted to forward this item to the Full Board 
as a committee report.  
 
• 190458 Planning, Administrative Codes - North of Market Affordable Housing Fees and 
Citywide Affordable Housing Fund. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Next the Committee heard the Mayor’s ordinance that would abolish the North of Market 
Affordable Housing Fund and instead have fees collected in that area deposited in the 
Citywide Affordable Housing Fund. The Planning Commission heard the item on June 13, 
2019 and recommended approval with modification to index the fee to $25.41 per square 
foot.  
 
The first time the item was heard at Land Use, the committee did not index the fee per 
Planning Commission’s recommendation; however, on July 23 at Full Board, Supervisor 
Haney introduced an amendment to index the fee to $25.41 and it was sent back to Land 
Use. Since then, the Planning Department clarified that the existing Planning Code only 
authorizes the Department to index the fee beginning in 2011, but that we can do it 
automatically. Therefore, at this hearing, the proposal was to revert the $25 back to the 
original $5 fee.  
 
Steve Vettel, a representative for a project sponsor within the SUD, gave public comment 
at the hearing expressing concern about the increased fees in this area and the potential to 
make projects infeasible. In the end the Committee accepted the amendment and sent the 
item to the Full Board with a positive recommendation. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 19 
 
• 190355 Planning Code - Authorizing Interim Activities at Development Sites. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Haney. Staff: Merlone.  
 
Lastly, the ordinance authorizing Interim Activities at Development Sites was back at the 
Land Use Committee this week. The Committee was rehearing this item so that the 
Planning Commission’s recommendation to require applicants to have a project that 
proposes an increase in residential density only if the existing site contained residential. 
The Land Use Committee adopted the modification and continued the item one week 
because the amendment was considered substantive. The intention is to pass the 
amended Ordinance at next week’s Committee hearing.  
 
Full Board  
• 191309 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental Review - 
SFMTA Page Street Bikeway Improvements Pilot Project. Staff: Lynch. 3:00 PM Special 
Hearing, Items 50-53. This item was continued to February 4, 2020 due to a noticing error.  
 
• 191257 Planning Code - Jackson Square Special Use District - Exemption from 
Limitation on Proposed Limited Restaurant Uses. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Not Staffed. 
Passed First Read  
 
Lastly, this week Supervisor Yee nominated Maria Imperial for Planning Commission to fill 
Commissioner Melgar’s seat. The nomination will be heard at the Rules Committee on 
February 3 as a committee report and then at the Board the following day. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered two items that may be of interest. 
First, they held their Election of Officers and elected Anne Lazarus as the President and 
Darryl Honda as Vice President. Second, they considered 3945 Judah Street. The Board 
heard an appeal of the Commission’s unanimous approval of the HomeSF project at 3945 
Judah. The appellant raised environmental concerns related to abandoned underground 
storage tanks on the property that will be dealt with by the Department of Public Health 
under the Maher Ordinance. And the Board unanimously denied the appeal and upheld 
the Commission’s decision.