9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Thank you, Commissioners. And Commissioner Moore, we can certainly 
reach out to our counterparts in Oakland too and ask for that presentation to be made.  
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
He is a professional colleague for many years at the AIA and I will ask him. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Okay, thank you. 
 
Two quick items. One, I'm sure you’ve read that 1979 Mission Street was acquired by the 10 
South Van Ness developers and the City will acquire that parcel as part of the land 
dedication for that project. I know when we heard the Hub, that that was kind of up in the 
air still. I mean that was the intent but it was not a done deal so there was a lawsuit and 
that was settled and it's moving forward. So, I wanted to let you know about that. 
 
Also, you may have heard that John Stewart from the John Stewart Company passed away 
this weekend. He had been battling cancer for couple of years. I know many of you knew 
him and have worked with him. He appeared before the Commission many times. He was 
a champion of Housing and Affordable Housing in the city. He was a larger than life person 
if you got to know him and met him. And he will be sorely missed. I just wanted to ask too 
if the meeting today could be adjourned in his memory. And that concludes my report. 
Thank you.   
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Hillis, would you mind to adding an additional word or two to the timeline and 
what next steps would be on this great success, congratulations, for the city to be able to 
get the Monster on the Mission project?  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes, so it’s part of that – MOHCD had to write a letter accepting the parcel. It has not been 
transferred yet to the city. I think after it's identified, there's a timeline up to six months 
before the parcel gets transferred to the city. So, the timing of that, I'm not exactly sure. 
But it will happen relatively soon. I mean, and the big question is, the funding for it to be 
developed as affordable housing. And obviously there's not funding necessarily identified 
to do that. So, you know, we'll have to work with MOCD and Board of Supervisors and the 
Mayor to identify funding to actually make that happen.   
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
But it is considered a priority project?  Is that correct? 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. I mean, it’s in—you know, that's kind of MOHCD to determine, but obviously, you 
know, from our history here and about that project through the Mission community and 

San Francisco Planning Commission