9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
I will start with congratulating President Koppel and Vice President Moore. Thank you. We 
look forward to working with you in the few weeks that I have left. And the staff will I’m sure 
look forward to that as well. Let me just also thank Commissioner Melgar for all of her great 
work on this Commission. What I really appreciate about your work, commissioner, is the 
balance that you brought to your work and the thinking that you brought. That was super 
helpful to me and very helpful to the staff. And I really appreciate your taking on the task, 
not a small task of finding my replacement which I know was not an easy task. Thank you 
for all of your work that you did on that and we look forward to working with you in the 
future and great good fortune. Thank you.   
 
President Koppel: 
And as soon as I was done congratulating and wishing you luck, I also wanted to thank you 
for the last year of your leadership and especially leading the charge with the search for the 
new director. I really appreciate all of the direction you gave us.   
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 16, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
Land Use Committee  
⋅ 
191260 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Establishing 12 Named Neighborhood 
Commercial Districts. Sponsors: Ronen; Fewer, Walton, Haney, Preston and Yee. Staff: 
Merlone. Item 2  
 
This week, the Land Use Committee considered the rezoning that would establish 12 new 
named NCDs this week. The Planning Commission heard this item on January 9th, just last 
week, and voted to recommend approval. After some brief discussion, the Committee voted 
to send the Ordinance with technical amendments to the Full Board as a Committee Report.  
 
The Small Business Commission also heard this item on Monday. The Commissioners 
expressed general support for the Ordinance but also cautioned any future proposal that 
would further restrict uses in these districts versus relaxing zoning controls on use types. The 
Commissioners warned that certain NCD’s proposed for rezoning are already facing issues 
with vacancies and that restricting uses would only serve to exacerbate vacancy issues. The 
Commission also requested that individual neighborhoods be heavily consulted before any 
changes are made to the zoning controls of their new districts. In the end the Commission 
voted to recommend the Ordinance.  
 
Full Board  
⋅ 
191125 Planning, Administrative Codes - Approval of Development Agreement, 
Conditional Use Procedures for Large Noncontiguous Post-Secondary Educational 
Institutions, Planning and Administrative Code Waivers. Sponsors: Peskin; Yee. Staff: 
Foster/Sider. PASSED Second Read, Item 2  
⋅ 
191260 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Establishing 12 Named Neighborhood 
Commercial Districts. Sponsors: Ronen; Fewer, Walton, Haney, Preston and Yee. Staff: 
Merlone. Passed First Read, Item 38  
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night, and they considered one item that may be of 
interest to this Commission. The Board of Appeals heard the appeal of the Planning 
Commission’s approval of HomeSF project at 65 Ocean Avenue. The appellant argued that 
the project did not provide enough units that would be affordable to the members of the 
community, would have negative impacts on the affordability of the existing housing and 
that the proposed units were substandard. The Department noted that the project complied 
with the affordability requirements of the planning code and the HomeSF program 
including a requirement that the units be marketed at a price that is at least 20% less than 
the current market rate for that unit size. And neighborhood and MOHCD shall reduce the 
area median income level to maintain such pricing. The Department also noted that the 
units were designed in a manner to provide adequate exposure and open space and 
otherwise co-complying, and the Board voted unanimously to uphold the Planning 
Commission’s decision on this item. Thank you.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. They also had their election of 
officers and voted to stay the course with Commission President Hyland and Commission 
Vice President Matsuda. They heard the proposed Department Budget and Work Program 
which is on your agenda for next week. They also heard the SB330 informational 
presentation from Mr. Bintliff that you have already heard. They considered several legacy 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 16, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
business registry applications maybe most notably was the New Delhi restaurant at 160 Ellis 
Street.