6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon Commissioner’s, Aaron Starr Department Staff. 
There were no Planning Department items at the Land Use Committee this week, but at 
the Full Board hearing, the Board considered several appeals, a CU and CEQA appeal for 
1846 Grove Street and the various CEQA appeals for the MTA’s slow Streets program. 
• 200746 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review 
1846 Grove Street. Special Order, 3:00 PM, Items 48-51 
 
First up was the CU and CEQA appeal for 1846 Grove Street. Commissioners, if you recall 
this project proposed the construction of four single-family homes on an interior flag lot. 
The buildings were designed in such a way as to minimize impact on the adjacent 
neighbors and featured green roofs. After several continuances for this item, many of 
which were related to the shelter in place orders, this Commission considered the project 
on April 9 and voted unanimously to approve it.  
 
The appellant group was made up of adjacent neighbors. The CEQA appeal was over the 
type of classification used. The appellant claimed that a class three exemption was not 
allowed since that only applied to 6 units in a single building and this project included four 
units in four separate buildings on one lot. However, the CEQA determination was not in 
fact based on a class three exemption. It was based on what is called a Commonsense 
Exemption. Basically, because CEQA Categorically exempts 6 units projects on a single lot, 
a 4-unit project would also not have significant environmental impacts and should receive 
a categorical exemption, which seems like common sense.  
 
With the CU appeal, they were primarily concerned with fire safety. Access to the site is 
limited to one narrow passageway on Fulton Street, and the appellants contend that the 
number of people living in those units could not safely leave the area in an emergency, 

San Francisco Planning Commission