7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Commissioners. If you’ll bear with me just for a 
couple of minutes. It's hard to imagine that this is my last time sitting in this chair. It's 
going to be a little harder than I thought. It's been my great honor and my challenge of my 
career to be here. And I want to thank you all for that. This Commission has been an 
incredible supporter of me and the Department over the last 12 years. And I just wanted to 
mention a couple of things that I – that kind of moving forward in my career and for you 
all. You know I've been doing this now for 37 years in three different cities. And what I've 
learned over the last several decades is that we do, in fact, need to grow our cities and 
grow our cities substantially to accommodate the changes that we're seeing here and 
across the world, but I also think that we have to change the way we do our work to 
accommodate that growth gracefully and with soul and without displacement. And I really 
have come to believe that we can do that, but we have to do it by thinking differently 
about how we do some of our work. I think it is one of the challenges of the last decade for 
me, and the department has been responding to the incredible pace of change, which has 
been greater than the changes in many, many years of before. And I think that pace of 
change will continue, and it will accelerate. And I do think that it's important upon -- it’s 
incumbent upon this Commission and the Department and the City as a whole to kind of 
learn how to be more nimble in responding to that change. City government, also, is not 
very nimble, but somehow these changes are coming at us at a pace that we never 
anticipated before. So, my advice as you go forward is to try to be more nimble in 
responding to that change. And embracing the notion that we can grow without 
displacement and grow with soul as the city continues on this trajectory. So, I thank you all 
again for this great honor.  
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
John, it has been a great honor to get to know you personally and professionally. From the 
day that I met you until now, I'm incredibly just always struck by your kindness and your 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
fierceness, your generosity and your grace. And your leadership that has both soul and a 
deep love for the city, for the people that you work with and for the larger calling that we 
all have to figure out how, who we are and who we're becoming as a city. Thank you so 
much for your leadership. And I hear your call and your invitation to us as we carry forward 
with the work and we will work to honor it. Thank you.  
 
Commissioner Fung:    
Good fortune, John and enjoy your new endeavors.  
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
As I said to you, I really wish I had more time to work with you. The last two months have 
just been inspiring watching your leadership. And I wish you the best of luck in the next 
endeavor and take to heart with your words.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
John, I was the only here who actually recommended you to Mayor Newsom. There are no 
disappointments and thank you for taking on the challenges that this Commission has 
posed to you. There are commissions who are more used to following in lockstep and 
agreeing this Commission had daring. And you had the fortitude and strength to stand 
with those challenges. It was great to have you. You will be sorely missed, and I hope that 
our paths will not just kind of go off in different directions, but that you'll stay close to 
where you actually belong now. Thank you.  
 
President Koppel: 
So, I had the honor of emceeing a going away party for Director Rahaim. And it's very 
fitting that we're up there literally with the bird's-eye view of the city seeing with our own 
eyes what this guy has been able to accomplish within our skyline. Nine area plans. This 
gentleman oversaw with almost 64,000 units of housing approved. So, no one can point a 
finger at John for not getting housing approved. And one other thing, I came here to these 
hearings starting off on the public side of the room and didn't really know as much about 
John as I do now, the ability for you to come in when we're all over the place and confused 
and able to just kind of wrangle us and get us in one formidable direction. I appreciate all 
your leadership and your help all along the way. Thanks a lot.  
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I'm very very new here, but I've also seen Planning Commission and you as a public person. 
And I've also seen the growth, but I've also seen your growth, too. So, I wish you all the 
luck and have a good retirement. Enjoy it.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I'll just briefly say, John, thank you for your leadership and direction you've provided to the 
Department.  
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Land Use Committee  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
• 190454 Planning Code - Obstructions in Required Setbacks, Yards, and Usable Open 
Space. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Merlone.  
 
First on the land use agenda was the Commission Initiated Ordinance that would make 
amendments to Section 136. The Ordinance would allow architectural projections to 
extend 4 feet over streets and alleys and would allow bay windows that do not meet the 
bay window dimensional standards but otherwise meet massing standards to seek a 
Zoning Administrator Waiver. The Commission heard and approved the Ordinance on 
October 4, 2018.  
 
After staff gave a presentation on the changes, the Land Use Committee voted 
unanimously to send the Ordinance to the full Board with a positive recommendation. 
There was no public comment. Supervisor Safai thanked the Department and Commission 
for putting forward an Ordinance that removes needless hurdles that slow project 
approvals.  
 
• 191075 Planning, Administrative Codes - Residential Occupancy. Sponsor: Peskin. 
Staff: D. Sanchez.  
 
Last on the land use agenda was Supervisor Peskin’s Intermediate Length Occupancies, or 
ILO, Ordinance. This Ordinance proposes to regulate occupancies in Dwelling Units that 
last between 30 and 365 days. In buildings with no more than 9 Dwelling Units, ILO would 
be principally permitted. For buildings with 10 or more Dwelling Units, ILO would require 
CU. The ordinance also places a 1000-unit cap on ILOs. The Ordinance also amends the 
Administrative Code to prohibit “Non-Tenant Uses,” which is defined as the renting of a 
unit to a corporate entity or other non-natural person.  
 
Commissioners you heard this item twice. First on January 16, where you moved to 
continue the hearing due to questions around exemptions for medical/healthcare and arts 
related organizations. On January 30 you moved unanimously to recommend approval 
with modifications. Those modifications include enacting an interim control on new ILO, 
collecting data on the scale and location of ILO activity, and clarifying Admin Code 
amendments around exemptions for non-profit organizations.  
 
At Monday’s Land Use hearing the Committee discussion was led by Supervisor Peskin who 
explained the reasons and workings of the Ordinance. He also discussed some of the 
amendments he would be considering including the creation of CU criteria and 
clarification of exempted units and ineligible units. The Budget and Legislative Analyst 
Office also provided a summary of their report on ILO. While finding that ILO activity is on 
the rise nationally, and estimating a similar trend locally, the BLA mentioned that in SF 
there is no comprehensive data on the activity.  
 
Public comment was overwhelmingly in support of the Ordinance. Speakers generally 
thought the Ordinance would help prevent displacement of SF residents in favor of 
wealthier, transient populations. There were a few speakers that did express caution about 
overregulating the activity given that it does serve a need.  
 
At the end of public comment, Supervisor Peskin moved continue the hearing to Monday 
March 2, when he will be proposing amendments to the subject ordinance.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
 
Full Board  
• 
190355 Planning Code - Authorizing Interim Activities at Development Sites] Sponsors: 
Mayor; Haney. Staff: Melone. PASSED Second Read  
 
• 200054 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Community Plan Evaluation - 2300 
Harrison Street. Staff: Shum and Dwyer. The Department rescinded the CPE 
exemption, so the hearing was not necessary.