9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I wanted to make some comments on SB35 and how it relates to RHNA goals because the 
issue I think came up with Commissioner Diamond a week ago or so. And just some 
clarification but we can get you more information on this too and even in our next hearing 
about state legislations as we talk about it. But as you know SB35 streamline housing 
improvements when cities have not permitted sufficient housing to meet their eight-year 
RHNA goals and those goals are divided to affordable, lower incomes and above moderate 
income. And currently the city is meeting its above moderate goals but not its affordable 
and lower income goals. And so, projects that have 50% or more affordable can move 
through the process under SB35 in a streamline ministerial approval.  
 
So, as we look to the next cycle, and our expectation is that the RHNA goals are going to be 
two to three times larger than the current cycle. The timing is a little interesting on how this 
works. SB35 needs to be re-authorized in 2026 so it is also unclear whether those 
requirements will still be applied, but it's a look back over four years. Once the RHNA goals 
are set, the period of time is divided between the first four years and the second four years. 
And we look back as to whether we have met our goals and when SB35 takes effect. It's a bit 
complicated. We can give you a memo that will explain this more but the provisions of SB35 
and how they relate to our RHNA goals won't necessarily apply until the new RHNA goals 
are adopted in there some time to look at how we're meeting our resources. So, we can have 
more information on that in the coming weeks.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 17 
 
I also wanted to point out and thank our staff that are involved in the Share Spaces program 
particularly Robin Abad who’s been the city's lead in implementing shared spaces. And I'm 
sure as you have been out and about over the last couple weeks you've seen the popularity 
of shared spaces. We've approved over 600 sites, and that’s both sidewalks only dining, and 
sidewalk and parking lanes and roadway improvements and our staff has been instrumental 
as MTA and DPW in implementing the program. There's been 12 roadway closures. The first 
one being in Chinatown. We're excited about how this is rolling out and moving forward. 
It's not without its kinks. We're working across the Departments to make sure that we can 
improve the timeline. We’re working with nonprofits and communities to make sure that 
we're reaching out to neighborhoods that are perhaps under resourced and making sure 
that the advantages to this program be taken up by any neighborhood. So, I just wanted to 
give you a quick update on that and thank our staff particularly Robin for his efforts in this. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
First on the Land Use agenda was Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that would allow arts 
activities, social service or philanthropic reliefs and COVID-19 recovery activities as 
temporary uses. This item was continued from last week so that the community could 
include the Planning Commission's modifications to extend the permit from a total of 2 years 
to a total of 4 years. This week the Committee sent the amended ordinance to the Full Board 
with a positive recommendation.  
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that will codify the Planning 
Commission’s CB3 Program. Commissioners, you heard this item on May 21st and voted to 
approve the ordinance with modifications. Modifications included 1) in lieu of codifying the 
existing CB3 Program, principally permit at the first-story uses that contribute to the retail 
corridor vitality for a temporary period of 3 years; and 2) maintain controls on specific uses 
when existing restriction use districts or other measures quantitatively limit them. The 
Commission’s proposed amendments were not included in the ordinance and it moved 
forward as is. At the Land Use hearing, the Committee expressed general support of the 
ordinance. Supervisor Ronen's office requested amendments to exclude the 24th Street 
Mission NCT from the ordinance. Public comment was overwhelmingly in support of the 
ordinance citing the need to cut red tape. After public comment, the Committee voted 
unanimously to accept Supervisor Ronen’s amendments. The Committee then voted to 
recommend the ordinance as amended to the Full Board.  
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Fewer’s ordinance which would modify the 
100% affordable housing and educator housing streamlined program, also known as Prop 
E, to allow extra height. It would also reduce the minimum lot size for qualified parcels from 
10,000 sq ft to 8,000 sq ft. Commissioners, you heard this item on July 16th and voted to 
support the ordinance as drafted. The Land Use Committee forwarded this ordinance to the 
Full Board with a positive recommendation. Supervisor Yee's ordinance that also amends 
Prop E and that you also heard on the 16th was not heard this Monday. His ordinance will be 
heard at the Land Use Committee in late August.  
 
Finally, the Land Use Committee held a hearing on the City's housing affordability and 
housing sustainability needs and relevant Planning Department reports. This hearing was 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 17 
 
called at the request of Supervisor Mar’s office. Supervisor Mar said that the goal for calling 
the hearing was to emphasize the importance of data, and wants the City to prioritize and 
address the housing needs of residents and communities to ensure a diverse and racially 
equitable society, and that this needs to be the core of the City’s housing policy framework. 
He stated that there is a need for measurable data, quantitative goals and metrics, and that 
the City can only address what it can measure. Planning staff delivered a comprehensive 
presentation that covered a historical overview of racial and social inequities in San 
Francisco, an update on the impacts of COVID-19 on vulnerable communities, an overview 
and timeline for delivery of mandated reports including - area plan, monitoring reports, 
housing reports and reports related to economic activity and allocation of impact fees; the 
summary of finding of the 2019 housing inventory, housing balance report, RHNA annual 
report, and the 2019 quarter 4 housing pipeline, an overview of the Department's housing 
strategies and the 2022 housing element update efforts. During the hearing committee 
members recommended various ways the Planning Department should present its data 
with more accuracy, particularly with RHNA goals. The Committee members also expressed 
concerns about how racial and social equity are being address by the Department. The 
Committee wanted to ensure that the racial and equity analysis doesn't take a backseat to 
other demands of the Department particularly those paying the bills for the Department in 
the form of fees paid by developers.  
 
Other recommendations by the Committee were to include data at the regional housing 
level including developing a dashboard that compares San Francisco to the rest of the bay 
area and to clarify how the city quantifies the loss of rent control units. A lot of public 
comment addressed racial and social equity issues and the relationships the Planning 
Department has had with the city’s African American community. Many commenters 
wanted the Planning Department to prioritize the needs of the people of color and low-
income communities. Commenters wanted future housing reports to show the racial impact 
of housing imbalances and also wanted the City to address racist zoning regulations that 
help maintain the city’s segregated wealthy communities. Other comments expressed the 
need to prioritize affordable housing and to build more workforce housing to ensure that 
the City can house its essential workers. Comments also stood along the lines of those who 
wanted the city to only allow the construction of 100% affordable homes in the foreseeable 
future versus those that wanted to relax zoning controls, particularly in the west side, to 
allow more market rate housing to meet existing demand. As a follow-up to this hearing, a 
preliminary assessment on jobs and housing will be presented to the Committee in August 
and the jobs housing FIT report is targeted for delivery to the Committee by the end of 
quarter 3 2020. At the end of the hearing, the committee moved to continue the hearing 
and moved the housing balance report resolution forward to the Full Board. Next, the 
Committee continued supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would exempt affordable 
housing units in RH districts for density limits to a date uncertain.  
 
And finally, the Committee heard the two legislative items for the Balboa Reservoir Project. 
The Planning Commission heard these items May 28th and recommended approval with 
Supervisor Yee's proposed amendments. At the Land Use hearing, the Committee did not 
make any recommendations because the pending CEQA appeal. However, they did refer the 
item to the Full Board without recommendation. Public comment was either in support of 
the project and urging the city to build housing as fast as possible or gives the project 
objection to public land being sold to a private developer. These commenters generally felt 
that the land should either be turned over to a city college or should have 100% affordable 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 17 
 
housing. Committee members discussed amendments to the DA, even though that was not 
under their purview at the moment, including the neighborhood preference radius for 
affordable housing and adding a use it or lose it clause. In the end, the Committee 
unanimously forwarded the items to the Full Board with positive recommendation.  
 
At the Full Board this week, the amendments to the general plan, planning code and zoning 
map for the Hub project passed their second read. Supervisor Ronen's ordinance that would 
amend the UMU Zoning District passed its first read. As did Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance 
that would allow the parking lot behind the El Rey theatre to continue operation for the next 
five years. Supervisor Peskin's resolution initiating landmark designation for the Zackheim 
History of Medicine in California Frescoes was adopted.  
 
Finally, the Board considered the CatEx appeal for the proposed project at 2651 Octavia. The 
project involves an addition of approximately 2,300 sq ft to an existing two-family residence. 
Noting the subject building is located immediately next to the Golden Gate Valley library. 
Commissioners, you heard this item on February 6th as a discretionary review and voted to 
not take DR and approved the project as proposed. The appellant asserted that the 
Department issued the September 5, 2019 Class 1 CatEx improperly because it was issued 
without analyzing the project’s historic resource impacts from the library. It was issued 
without a shadow study assessing the project effects on the amount of natural light into the 
library’s reading room and that the correct CatEx was not included in the department’s staff 
report prepared for the Planning Commission's hearing. In response, the Department 
contends the Department adequately analyzed the project’s impacts on both onsite and 
offsite historic resources including the library. No shadow analysis is required because the 
project is less than 40 ft in height. The quality of natural light in the library’s reading room is 
not a character defining feature identified in the designation report and the project would 
have negligible impact on the level of natural light in the reading room.  
 
And finally, despite of the omission, the correct CatEx from the staff report for the DR 
hearing, the clerical error did not misinform the Planning Commissioners or members of the 
public because the staff report clearly state that the project qualifies for a Class 1 CatEx. In 
her comments, Supervisor Stefani whose district the project is at said the Department made 
procedural errors, including the Department did not analyze the project’s historic resource 
impacts until June 2020 when the Department published a preservation review memo and 
the Department prepared a shadow study after issuing the CatEx. As a result, Supervisor 
Stefani made a motion to overturn the Planning Department’s environmental 
determination which passed unanimously. EP staff will carefully review the Board's findings 
once they are drafted to see how this decision impacts their CEQA review moving forward 
and what impacts it will have on the project itself. Thank you for your time. That concludes 
my report. And Commissioner Johnson I am going to miss you terribly and wish you the best 
of luck. Thank you.