7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Legislative Affairs Manager: 
Land Use Committee 
• 
200673 Planning Code - Conversion of Certain Limited Restaurants to Restaurants 
- North Beach Neighborhood Special Use District.  
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Malone/Starr Item 3 
First on the Land Use agenda was Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would allow 
Limited Restaurants in the North Beach SUD to convert to Restaurants. 
Commissioners you heard this item on August 27 and voted to recommend 
approval with modifications. Last week the bulk of those modifications were 
added to the ordinance, but because the amendments were deemed substantive 
the item was continued one week. This week there was no public comment and 
after some brief remarks on the amendments from the City Attorney’s office, the 
item was unanimously recommended to the Full Board and forwarded as a 
Committee Report.  
• 
200852 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezone Certain Industrial Parcels.  
Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: D. Sanchez. 
Next the Committee considered an ordinance that this body sponsored. Known as 
the Rezoning Certain Industrial Parcels Ordinance, this ordinance re-zones various 
M-1 and M-2 parcels to primarily PDR.  These parcels largely in the industrial heart 
of District 10 and were left out of other larger past rezoning efforts. The 
Department sought to rezone them because the M-1 and M-2 zoning districts are 
outdated zoning designations that don’t adequately protect our industrial zoned 
land.  
This Commission heard this item On April 23, 2020 and voted to approve with 
modification.  The modification was to augment an existing note in the PDR table 
to further outline the FAR requirements for self-storage projects. 
 
During the hearing, the members of Land Use Committee did not offer any 
comments.  There was one comment from the public concerned about how this 
project is being linked to unrelated upzoning.  After public comment the Land Use 
Committee voted to move the item as a committee report to the Full Board with a 
positive recommendation. 
 
Full Board 
• 
200754 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental 
Review - 66 Mountain Spring Avenue. 
At the Full Board this week, the Board considered the CEQA appeal for 66 
Mountain Spring Avenue. This was an appeal of a categorical exemption for the 
demolition of a single-family home and construction of a new single-family home.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 17, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
This Commission considered this project on February 20, 2020 as a Discretionary 
Review and voted to approve the project with modifications by a vote of 6 to 0.   
 
The appellants primary concerns included aesthetic and geological concerns due 
to construction on a steep slope. As explained in the department’s appeal 
response, the project is located in a transit priority area on an infill development 
site and therefore under CEQA, aesthetic impacts are not to be considered 
significant impacts. Further, geological concerns raised by the appellant will be 
addressed during the Department of Building Inspection permit review process in 
accordance with state and local building codes. Public comment in support of the 
appeal reflected the primary concerns raised by the appellant. There was also 
public comment in support of the project. The appeal request was denied by the 
Board of Supervisors by a vote of 10 to 0. 
• 
200800 Hearing - Appeal of Revised Final Mitigated Negative Declaration - 
Proposed 3516 and 3526 Folsom Street Project.  
Next the Board considered the CEQA Appeal of the the Revised Final Mitigated 
Negative Declaration (RFMND) for a project located at 3516-3526 Folsom Street. 
The project would construct two homes over two vacant lots and also included a 
street extension adjacent to and over buried PG&E Pipeline. 
This project has a long history. The original Final MND was appealed and heard by 
the Board on September 12, 2017. Prior to that there was an appeal of the 
Preliminary MND at the Planning Commission on June 15, 2017, and there was a 
prior appeal hearing at the Board on the previously issued Categorical Exemption 
in 2016.  
  
At the September 12, 2017 hearing, the Board said the FMND was adequate, 
except that Planning needed to include specific items related to the potential 
impacts of project construction on the buried PG&E pipeline.  
 
Even with that added review, the appellants were still concerned that there would 
be risks to the integrity of the pipeline. 
 
The Department’s response to the appeal was that it satisfied the requirements of 
the Board Motion by directing preparation of the Vibration Management Plan and 
Emergency Response and Evacuation Plan, and by having the proper review and 
approval by various agencies. Further, staff noted that countless other steeply 
sloped sites in the city are in proximity to a PG&E pipeline, including about 20 with 
active planning applications.  Construction happens all the time in proximity to 
pipelines, and there are ways to do so safely, despite the valid concerns about 
PG&E's safety record.  
 
The general sentiment during public comment was that an EIR should be required 
for the project since it would provide decision makers more information on the 
project and could reduce the potential safety impacts.  
 
During this week’s hearing, Supervisor Ronen requested more details about how 
our mitigation measures would be implemented for this project, how the 
Department could guarantee implementation, and asked about potential liability 
if an accident were to occur. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 17, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
At the end of the hearing, Supervisor Ronen noted that her office had spent an 
inordinate amount of time on this appeal, far more than nearly every other 
housing project. She also noted that she received personal assurances from the 
Fire Marshall and the Director of Public Works that this project will be carefully 
monitored by the city. 
 
In the end the Board voted 10-0 with Supervisor Safai recused to deny the appeal.  
 
As a postscript, this project first had a building permit application filed in 2013 and 
took nearly 7 years to get to this point. Keep in mind that this project proposes to 
construct two houses on two vacant lots in an urban environment. The appellant 
submitted thousands of pages as part of their appeal, and staff spent over 400 
hours on the appeal alone. This case may add to chorus of voices urging the city to 
reform the CEQA appeals process. Regardless, our environmental staff are grateful 
for the outcome and very happy to move on.  
 
• 
200887 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental 
Review - Proposed 178 Seacliff Avenue Project.  
Next, the Board voted to continue the appeal for 178 Seacliff to September 22, 
next week’s hearing.  
• 
200673 Planning Code - Conversion of Certain Limited Restaurants to Restaurants 
- North Beach Neighborhood Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: 
Malone/Starr. 
 Passed First Read 
• 
200852 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezone Certain Industrial Parcels. Sponsor: 
Planning Commission. Staff: D. Sanchez.  
Passed First Read  
 
 Government Oversight Committee (Thursday) 
• 
200955 Urging the Association of Bay Area Governments in the Regional Housing 
Needs Allocation Process to Focus on Unmet Needs for Affordable Housing. 
Sponsors: Mar; Ronen, Walton, Preston, Fewer, Mandelman and Peskin. Staff: 
Rodgers. Item 10 
 
Jonas Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
Sorry, I was on mute. I did not receive a report from the Board of Appeals, but the Historic 
Preservation Commission did meet yesterday, briefly, and they heard and adopted 
recommendations for approval of several Legacy Business Registry applications. 
Specifically, Ambiance on Howard Street, Farley’s on 18th Street, the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, 
Transgender (GLBT) Historical Society on Market Street, San Bruno Supermarket on San 
Bruno Avenue, and Val De Cole Wine and Spirits on Cole Street.