6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioner’s Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
• 201034 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 4767-4773 Mission Street (aka the 
Royal Baking Company Building) 
 
 
This week the Land Use Committee considered the landmark designation for the Royal 
Baking Company building at 4767 Mission Street. You may recall that this was already 
heard at the Land Use Committee this past September, but due to some clerical issues, it 
had to come back. As expected, all went smoothly and quickly for the Royal Baking 
Company this week. Supervisor Preston and Peskin joined Supervisor Safai as sponsors and 
the item and it was quickly forwarded to the Full Board with a positive recommendation. 
 
 
Full Board 
• 200825 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 617 Sanchez Street Project 
 
 
At the Full Board this week, the Board considered the CEQA Appeal for 617 Sanchez Street. 
The project proposed the demolition of a two-story single-family home and the construct a 
4,200 sq. ft. single-family home. Commissioners, you heard this item in February of this 
year as a discretionary review application and approved the project without taking 
discretionary review. 
 
 
After public comment, Supervisor Mandelman noted that the proposed plans had been 
amended after the Discretionary Review hearing and made a motion to change the project 
description based on those changes. 
 
 
In short, the project size shrunk slightly to 4,028 sq. ft., and instead of one single large unit, 
the project now includes one 2,800-square-foot, single-family home and a 1,200-square 
foot Accessory Dwelling Unit. 
 
 
After those changes were accepted Supervisor Mandelman made a motion to deny the 
appeal and uphold the project based on the proposed revisions. 
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission