7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
I'll add on behalf of staff my welcome to Commissioner Imperial.  
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 13, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
We look forward to working with you, even though I'll only be here for two more weeks. 
But hopefully -- and do call on us if staff can help kind of go through the process and in any 
way, we can help in the meantime and I certainly would welcome that.   
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Definitely yeah.   
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
There's a lot of 101 training as we call it for a lot of new folks who come into the 
Department. So we're happy to do that, as well. I also just wanted to mention that, in light 
of the coming transition to the new director, I will be spending a fair amount of time with 
Rich Hillis over the next couple of weeks going over key projects, procedures, calendars, 
schedules. Staff has prepared a briefing book for the new director to kind of orient him to 
the workings of the department and the specifics of our work plan. So I will be spending 
time with him over the next couple of weeks to make sure there’s a -- before I leave -- 
there's a smooth transition going forward. So if you have any thoughts or questions about 
that, I'm happy to take them, as well. Thank you.   
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Diego Sanchez: 
Aaron Starr typically gives the Summary of Board Activities and since he's ill today, I'll be 
doing that and so let's dive in. There is nothing to report back from the Land Use 
Committee hearing as that Monday meeting was canceled. However, on Tuesday, the Full 
Board did meet and considered four items that are pertinent to this Commission. The first 
was the Ordinance amending the Administrative Code regarding the North of Market 
Affordable Housing Fees and Citywide Affordable Housing Fund. And that passed its 
second read. A second item was amending the Planning Code which would authorize 
Interim Activities at Development Sites. That passed its first read. There's also an 
appointment to the Planning Commission of resolution to appointment Maria Theresa 
Imperial. Passed unanimously so thank you, welcome.  And the last item was an appeal of 
conditional use authorization at 95 Nordoff Street. That was actually continued to March 
10th, 2020. There were no introductions this week and that concludes the summary. Thank 
you.