12. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, commissioners. I think I'm going to have you’re on mute t-shirts made, as 
it seems to be our catch phrase at the time. One, I just wanted to also congratulate 
Commissioner Chan and thank her for her willingness to serve. It was good to talk to you, 
albeit rather briefly last week. We're very much looking forward to your experience and 
perspective as we tackle some of the major planning issues we have in San Francisco, 
especially around housing and affordable housing. So, looking forward to working with 
you. I wanted to give a quick update on the budget. We received instructions from the 
mayor's office to reduce our general fund allocation by 10% this coming year and 15% to 
the following year. So, we are going to come to you on June 11th, it's a rather quick turn-
around that with you and approve the proposal for us to get there. We're also at the same 
time analyzing where our fee revenue is headed and obviously there is going to be some 
reduction in fee revenue as we move forward. I also wanted to thank our staff who have 
been participating in the Recovery Task force and you might have seen that the mayor 
announced a shared spaces program that's geared to help local businesses. And our small 
businesses along commercial corridors are continuing -- or start to operate using some of 
the public space in those areas. So, we're looking forward to working on that initiative as 
well. And that is my report. Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Moore:  
Director Hillis, I have a question. The budget reductions you were mentioning, are they 
above and beyond what we had already approved?   
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Correct. This is in addition to -- we didn't necessarily approve reductions as a result of the 
health crisis and the reduction in general fund revenue. So, we briefly talked about it, but 
we’re coming to you in order to meet the Mayor's target of 10% reduction for -- this is for 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 28, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 16 
 
the 2020-2021 budget that's already approved so this is an adjustment to the already 
approved budget for next year.  
 
Commissioner Moore:  
Thank you.   
 
13. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
None