14. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas and thank you commissioners. Thank you for all your support and 
guidance over the past month that I had been on the job. And thank you for staff for all of 
the work you have done and the flexibility you have shown over this past month. It has 
been, obviously as people have said, it has been an unprecedented situation that we have 
had that led to an incredible level of change – an incredible pace of change that we have 
all seen and recognized. And we recognized this is not business as usual. And that the 
impact of this crisis will likely continue after the shelter in place order is lifted. We are 
already getting indications from the Mayor’s office about the general fund impacts and the 
budget impacts that we will see. The unemployment impacts we are already seeing. 
Particularly the impacts to small businesses and commercial corridors. I think we can all 
anticipate a level of – increase level of vacancies on commercial corridors. And all of these 
impacts clearly will be magnified and felt harder in our most vulnerable communities. So 
all of this will likely necessitate a change in re-prioritization of our work program or 
strengthening in areas and we would like to come and agendize that for a future hearing 
and come talk to you and get your feedback and the public’s feedback on potential 
changes to our workload program. Certainly, some of the priorities around housing, 
affordable housing and community stabilization, those priorities will be intensified. 
Building housing and making sure we have the right supply, the right sizes of units in the 
right neighborhoods. Building more equitably throughout the city and not just in the 
eastern portion of the city. Finding new ways to build affordable housing and fund 
affordable housing. Strengthening and broadening our community stabilization work and 
our racial and social equity work in disadvantage communities are going to be particularly 
important. Our Housing Affordability Strategy, phase 2 of our Racial and Social Equity plan 
which have already been continued, I think are going to be key and extremely important. 
So, we want to come back and make sure that work is coordinated and prioritized. Also, 
our work in commercial corridors, strengthening existing businesses, providing more 
flexibility to fill vacancies is another area we are working on and working with the Mayor’s 
economic recovery team to make sure we have policies that will help small businesses in 
commercial corridors.  

San Francisco Planning Commission