9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, commissioners, I just wanted to do the same and recognize former 
Commissioner Ron Miguel and pass on the Department's condolences to his wife, kids and 
family. I got to know him over the last couple of decades working with him as he sat on the 
Commission here. I often presented as a city staff person before him, but also sought out 
his advice and guidance. I think from Commissioner Johnson's description, he always had 
great advice that was direct and concise and was to the point. It was implementable and I 
sought that out often. Even after I sat on the Commission, he set out his advice on how to 
be a good commissioner. He was tremendously respected by city staff and staff within the 
Planning Department. He helped shape the Market-Octavia Plan, the Eastern 
Neighborhood Plan, the Transit Center district when he was a commissioner. He had a 
keen understanding of San Francisco in our neighborhoods and will be sorely missed. 
Thank you, all for your comments. That concludes my report.   
 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Good afternoon commissioners. Aaron Starr, Planning Department staff. I hope you all had 
a safe and restful 4th of July weekend. While you did not meet last week, the Board did. So, 
this week’s report will cover both this and last week.  
 
At last week’s Land Use hearing, there were no Planning Department items. However, last 
week, the Small Business Commission considered Supervisor Peskin's ordinance that 
would codify the Planning Commission’s CB3P program, institute the half feet for eligible 
CU applications and provide a refund for applicants if the item was not heard within 90 
days. Lee Hepner from Supervisor Peskin's office was there to present the item to the 
Commission and I presented the Planning Commission’s recommendation and rationale 
for the recommendation. Overall, the Commission was very supportive of Peskin’s 
ordinance but was also sympathetic to the Planning Commission’s recommendation at 
first. Commission questioned Lee about the need to codify an already successful program 
and on the limitations resulting from codifying the program. Mr. Hepner asserted that the 
Planning Commission’s action actually endorsed the idea of codifying the program by 
recommending approval with modifications. I did correct the record and reiterate that the 
Commission’s recommendation was in lieu of codifying the program. As further 
justification for the ordinance, Mr. Hepner cited two examples that both took an unusually 
long amount of time to reach on a hearing for a CU authorization. It was not clear if these 
projects would have been eligible for the CP3P program and why there was a delay, but 
these anecdotal examples did seem to persuade the Small Office Commission. Discussion 
then turned to the Planning Department’s motive for not supporting the codification. After 
I attempted to defend the motives of department staff and the work we do, Commissioner 
Yekutiel countered by comparing the service provided from the Planning Information 
Counter to the DMV. Commissioner Adams then agreed with and gave his own less than 
flattering story about processing a CU with the Planning Department. The Commission 
ultimately decided to recommend approval of Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance with the 
modification that 60-day extension period be removed to provide business owners with 
more certainty.  
 
At the Full Board last week, the Board considered the CU appeal for the project at 1420 
Taraval Street. The decision before them was whether to uphold or overturn the Planning 
Commission’s approval of the conditional use authorization for the demolition of an 
existing 2100 sq ft, three-story single-family home and the construction of a new four-
story mixed-use building with three dwelling units on the ground floor. The Planning 
Commission heard this item on January 30th and voted to approve the conditional use 
authorization, with the condition that the building’s height be reduced from 45 ft to 42 
1/2. The appellant raised four main issues under the Department's purview, in their written 
appeal. The first was that the proposed project is not consistent with the objectives 2 and 3 
of the housing element or Planning Code section 101.1. The second issue was that the 
proposed project decreases naturally affordable housing in the Parkside District. The third 
issue was that the project destroys a rare historic resource and negatively impacts the look, 
the feel and character of the Parkside District. And finally, the project would block a 
property line window. Staff responded to each of these points in its presentation to the 
Board as did the project sponsor and his representative. All the comment was related 
towards to supporting the appeal with most comments are concerned about the loss of 
the building which they claimed was historic and the changing character of the Parkside 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 11 
 
District. There are approximately four speakers in favor of the project, felt this is a great 
addition to the neighborhood and added housing in a thoughtful way. There are only a 
few questions from the Board. Notably, Supervisor Mar asked Planning’s preservation staff 
how the Department’s preservation standards account for historically working-class 
neighborhoods like the Parkside where building such fewer architectural character takes as 
a matter of economy. In the end, Supervisor Mar made a motion to uphold the CU and 
deny the appeal because the project helped address the housing crisis in San Francisco and 
was an appropriate development type for the neighborhood. Further, the benefits of 
creating three new family-sized units outweigh the loss of one single-family home. The 
motion passed 10-1, with Supervisor Peskin voting against it. Peskin did not make any 
remarks during the hearing that would indicate why he voted no on the motion.  
 
This week, the Land Use Committee heard Supervisor Peskin's ordinance that would allow 
the expansion of the Central Station in the North Beach Neighborhood Commercial 
District. This Commission waived their opportunity to hear this item because it was so 
limited in scope. The item passed out of the Committee with a unanimous vote. There 
were no Planning items at this week's Board hearing. Finally, last week, Supervisor Peskin 
introduced a new ordinance that would fix an error caused by the Chinatown 
Reorganization Ordinance which passed last year. The Chinatown Reorg inadvertently 
prohibited non-retail professional services in the Chinatown Community Business District 
where before the reorganization, it was permitted. This ordinance will fix that error and 
allow the use on the second and third floors. Since this ordinance will fix an error caused by 
the Chinatown Reorganization Ordinance and the Commission recommendation when it 
passed that ordinance was to allow modifications that would maintain existing controls, 
staff has determined that this ordinance does not need to come before this Commission 
for a public hearing unless we hear otherwise from you today. In which case we would be 
happy to notice the item and bring it to you for your review and consideration. That 
concludes my report and I'm available for questions.