6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Rich Sucre: 
 
 
Good afternoon Commissioners, on behalf of Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs.  
 
Planning Commission  
 
 
This week there were no planning items at the land use committee. 
 
Full Board 
• 201033 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - “History of Medicine in California” 
Frescoes - Toland Hall Auditorium in UC Hall, 533 Parnassus Avenue. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. First Read, Item 13 
 
At the Full Board, the Board passed on first read the landmark designation for the History 
of Medicine in California Frescos at the UCSF Parnassus campus.  
 
• 200942 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Disapproval - 552-554 Hill 
Street. Staff: Campbell. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 14-17 
 
Next, the Board again continued the CU appeal for 552-554 Hill Street at the request of the 
project sponsor to December 15, the very last Board hearing of the year. 
 
• 200137 Hearing - Appeal of Final Mitigated Negative Declaration - Proposed Project at 
2417 Green Street. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 18-21 
 
The Board did take up the CEQA appeal of the final mitigated negative declaration for 2417 
Green Street. This project included a horizontal and vertical additions and the addition of 
an ADU to an existing single-family home.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 12, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
This project has a long history. A categorical exemption for the project was appealed to the 
Board in January of 2018 and upheld in order to require additional review of historic 
resource and hazardous materials impacts. The Department reopened the analysis, and in 
June of 2019 issued a mitigated negative declaration that included a mitigation measure 
requiring ongoing coordination and monitoring by the Planning Department during DBI’s 
review. The Preliminary MND was appealed to you and upheld on January 9th of this year. 
After you took DR and approved the project on July 16th, the final MND was appealed to 
the Board. 
 
During the Board hearing, the appellant and about half a dozen neighbors who spoke 
during public comment raised the same issues that were raised in previous appeals: Those 
issues included (1) structural impacts to the adjacent historic foundation at 2421 Green 
Street – also known as the Coxhead House - during project construction; (2) indirect 
historic resource impacts on the Coxhead House; and (3) impacts related to the potential 
release of hazardous materials. Staff emphasized compliance with the building code and 
the additional oversight provided by the mitigation measure. Nonetheless, Board 
members unanimously voted to return the project to the Planning Department for 
additional CEQA analysis, citing concerns related to slope stability, hazardous materials, 
historical resources, and the history of permit violations at the project site.  
 
This decision by the Board voids your approval of the building permit made at the DR 
hearing. City attorneys are currently working with the Board to prepare CEQA findings that 
will determine the additional analysis required. 
 
• 201112 Hearing - Appeal of Statutory Exemption from Environmental Review - 
Proposed SFMTA’s COVID-19 Muni Bus Service Adjustments and Associated Stop, 
Street and Parking Changes - August 22, 2020 Project. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 22-
25 
 
• 201116 Hearing - Appeal of Statutory Exemption from Environmental Review - 
Proposed MTA’s COVID-19 Muni Rail Service Adjustments and Associated Street and 
Parking Changes - August 22, 2020, and Fall 2020 Project. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 
26-29 
 
The Board also considered the two other CEQA Appeals, both statutory exemptions which 
were called together. One was for the SFMTA Muni Bus Service Adjustments and 
Associated Stop, Street and Parking Changes, and one for The SFMTA COVID-19 Muni Rail 
Service Adjustments and Associated Street and Parking Changes. These projects were not 
heard by the Planning Commission.  
 
Both projects were determined to be statutorily exempt by the Planning Department 
under the emergency project and mass transit statutory exemptions, and both projects 
were approved administratively by the Director of Transit in August of this year.  
 
The primary concerns raised by appellants included that the projects do not fit the 
definition of an emergency project or a mass transit project, and that there are potential 
significant cumulative impacts associated with the projects.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 12, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
As explained in the Department's response, both projects do qualify as emergency projects 
because they help mitigate an emergency by providing adequate space for people to 
social distance during a public health emergency. The projects also qualify as mass transit 
projects because they increase ridership capacity on existing transit lines. 
 
Public comment in support of the appeal reflected the primary concerns raised by the 
appellants. There was also public comment in support of the projects. There were some 
questions by Supervisors, but they mainly had to do with MTA’s decision-making process, 
and not CEQA concerns. In the end the appeal request was unanimously denied by the 
Board. 
 
Introductions 
Finally last week the Mayor’s office introduced an ordinance amending the Planning Code 
to extend from January 1, 2021, to January 1, 2022, the sunset date for the provision 
allowing for the conversion of Medical Cannabis Dispensaries to a Cannabis Retail Use; 
Commissioners this is similar to an ordinance you reviewed last November that extended 
the date for conversions in Section 191.The reference in Section 190 should have also been 
amended at that time but was not included in the changes. Since you have already 
weighed in on this issue and the change is a minor correction staff is not planning on 
bringing this item to you for review and recommendation unless you direct me otherwise.