8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Commissioners. Thank you, Commissioner Imperial and Moore for the 
comments on the internship program and participating in it. I do want to thank Tina Tam 
who led the effort with our interns. As you know, many agencies and corporations got 
canceled their internship programs over the summer because of COVID and we made our 
conscious effort to keep ours going. And I think it was tremendously successful. So, we sent 
around a link, please do take a look at those presentations.  
 
So, welcome back to everyone and congratulations Commissioner Diamond, Imperial and 
President Koppel on your reappointments to this commission. A few items, you probably 
have heard that Jeff Joslin announced a few weeks ago that he was leaving his position as 
our Director of Current Planning. His last day was last week, August 20th. So, I just wanted 
to publicly thank him for his 7+ years with the Department and his leadership at Current 
Planning. He was definitely unprecedented at times and that he was here - - and especially 
I want to highlight his work building our capacity around Design Review and Preservation. 
I think the changes he’s made will have a lasting impact on our work for years to come. So, 
thank you to Jeff. Liz Watty who’s been the Deputy Director of Current Planning for the 
past 4 years has taken over in an acting capacity while we take out a process to fill that 
position. So more to come on that.  
 
Our offices officially moved to 49 South Van Ness last week.  It was a bit odd because we 
didn’t physically move, our stuff moved. So we haven’t been able to occupy the space. 
Some staff had gone in to unpack and do some work.  We are still awaiting any additional 
guidelines from the City, DHR, and DPH on how and when we will ultimately be able to 
occupy the space.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
I do want to highlight an issue with DBI that is impacting our work as well. As you may 
have heard, DBI was accepting all permit applications electronically. There were some 
issues and some kinks that had to be worked out related to that. So, they have temporarily 
limited the types of applications that are able to be submitted online. And they are 
working to retool the electronic submission process to better integrate it with their permit 
tracking system. So, we hope that’s up and running more robustly in the coming weeks. 
While they are making those improvements, they are continuing to offer limited in-person 
ability to permit applications. And they will continue to process digitally those that have 
been submitted. So, we realize this is an impact. We’re working with them, lending our 
expertise to their processes as well as expanding our ability to accept permits over the 
counter.  
 
And then finally, our department’s budget was approved at the Full Board this past week. 
There were some minor changes, not a tremendous amount of change to what we had 
submitted to you a couple of months ago in response to the mayor’s request to reduce our 
General Fund allocation. There is still a bit of uncertainty as we move forward around fees 
and fee revenue because that makes up the bulk of our budget. So, we’re maintaining 
flexibility by keeping some positions vacant until we get a better handle on our fee 
revenue. Because this issue came up, I think the last time we talked about the budget 
around our historic survey work, that money remain – the funding remains intact in our 
budget. So, that work will continue. And that concludes my report. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I have a question director Hillis if that’s okay.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I’m sad to hear regarding Director Joslin leaving. But I have a question in terms of – in the 
process of hiring his position. I’m assuming that the Racial and Social Equity work that we 
have in terms of hiring will be something applicable? 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Absolutely. It is something we’re constantly working on and we got internal processes that 
we have put in place to implement the Phase 1 of our work. We are also working with DHR 
to expand the applicability of that work but yes. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay thank you. And I hope I - - I wish I got to work more with Director Joslin so regards to 
him as well. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Legislative Manager: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Welcome back from your summer break. In the 
pandemic, fires, deadly air and multiple constitutional crisis, I’m sure it was very relaxing. 
Before I begin, I would like to announce that this will be my last board report. I’ve decided 
to quit my job and join the touring cast of Hair, playing the role of Claude. We’ll be 
performing in socially distant crowds in parts across the country. While we still take our 
clothes off at the end of the first act, we always keep our masks on. So let’s get on with it.  
 
While you were on break, the Board remained in session except for the first week in 
August. During that time, only one Land Use hearing had a Planning Department item on 
it. That item was Supervisor Yee’s amendment to Prop E, the Educator Housing 
Streamlining Program. This ordinance amended the Planning Code to require at least 10% 
of the units in educator housing be three-bedroom units. Commissioners, you heard this 
item on July 16th in conjunction with Supervisor Fewer’s ordinance that also amended the 
controls for Prop E. This item was unanimously recommended to the Board.  
 
Over the course of the last three boring hearings, the following items all passed their 
second read – Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that will allow arts activities, social services, or 
philanthropic facilities and COVID-19 recovery activities at temporary uses; supervisor 
Ronen’s ordinance that would amend the controls for the Urban Mixed Use Zoning District 
by prohibiting office uses, specifically in the Mission SUD; Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance 
that would allow for the continuation of the parking lot behind the El Capitan theatre 
building; Supervisor Fewer’s ordinance that would amend Prop E by allowing for height 
increases and development on lots over 8,000 sq ft or more; Supervisor Yee’s proposed 
amendments to proposition E that would require that 10% of the units in Prop E projects 
have three bedrooms; Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would codify the Planning 
Commission’s successful CB3 program; and Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would make 
technical corrections to the Chinatown Community Business District.  
 
There are also several resolutions that the Board passed including the Mayor’s 
reappointment of Commissioner Diamond and Commissioner Koppel to the commission, 
congratulations. As well as President Yee’s reappointment to commissioner Imperial to the 
Planning Commission, also congratulations to her. And finally, Supervisor Mar’s resolution 
urging the Association of Bay Area Governments in the regional housing needs allocation 
process to focus on unmet needs for affordable housing. That was continued for one week. 
The Board also continued several appeals and heard a few. It continued the appeal for 617 
Sanchez Street; that’s environmental appeal to September 29th. It continued the 
environmental appeal for 66 Mountain Spring Avenue to September 15th. It continued the 
1846 Grove Street CU and CEQA appeal to September 29th.  
 
The Board did take up the Balboa Reservoir project after denying a CEQA appeal for the 
project. The Board then voted to approve the General Plan, Planning Code, Zoning Map 
and Development Agreement for this project. Those items passed their second read on 
October 18th. And the Board also heard the Community Plan Evaluation appeal for 2300 
Harrison. This project was the [inaudible] for Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance to prohibit 
offices in the UMU Zoning District, which recently passed on second read. The project 
proposed replacing a vacant parking lot with a 6-story building that will expand the 
existing office use and also add 24 residential units. The project sought a height waiver in 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
accordance with the State Density Bonus Law. The project was before the Commission on 
December 12, 2019 and received a Large Project Authorization and Small Cap Office 
Allocation for 27,000 sq ft. The appellant argued that the Department should have 
prepared an Environmental Impact Report instead of a Community Plan Evaluation for the 
project. Reasons cited included the claim that the project is inconsistent with the Mission 
Area Plan and General Plan Policies both in terms of goals and zoning. The Department’s 
position is that the Environmental review was properly performed pursuant to local and 
state requirements. The project is consistent with the zoning of the site which means it is 
consistent with the development density established by the General Plan. This therefore 
satisfies the standard to qualify for CPE. That 2020 monitoring last year showed that the 
neighborhood has gained 235,000 sq ft of office use while losing 481,000 sq ft of PDR use 
since 2011. Supervisor Ronen indicated this new information should have been 
acknowledged and analyzed in the CPE. The Board concurred and unanimously upheld the 
appeal on the spaces. The Board did not state that this new information would result in a 
new significant impact or substantially more severe significant impact that was not 
identified in the Eastern neighborhood’s EIR. Moreover, the Board did not ask Planning 
staff any questions during the hearing. Nonetheless, the Board voted to conditionally 
reverse the CPE determination by the Planning Department.  
 
Staff would like to note that the updated Office and PDR monitoring numbers for the 
Mission area in the last MAP 2020 report do not exceed the non-residential projections 
never used as the basis for the impact analysis in the Eastern neighborhood’s EIR. During 
the hearing, most public commenters spoke in favor of the appeal while a few spoke in 
favor of the project and its CPE. While the Board has not yet adopted written findings in 
support of their decision to overturn the CPE, those findings would be applicable only to 
the Board’s decision on 2300 Harrison Street CPE appeal. The findings may be moot at this 
point, however, as because the Mayor has recently signed Supervisor Ronen’s legislation 
prohibiting new office uses in the UMU Zoning District, legislation will be effective within 
30 days. It is not possible for the Department to issue a new environmental determination 
and for the project to receive new approvals from the Planning Commission before that 
legislation goes into effect. Thus, the project is effectively no longer viable. And that 
concludes my remarks and I am happy take questions. Thank you. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I don’t have a report from the Board of Appeals. I won’t be quitting, but I do have a report 
from the Historic Preservation Commission, which didn’t meet yesterday but did meet last 
week on August 19th. They approved several Legacy Business Registry applications 
specifically Legal Assistance to the Elderly on Mission Street, the San Francisco Natural 
Medicine, business on 20th Street, Annie’s Hot Dogs on 25th Street, the House of Nanking 
on Kearny, and JHW Locksmith on Fillmore, and The Wok Shop on Grant Avenue. Most 
significantly, they reviewed and adopted a recommendation for approval of landmark 
designation to the Board of Supervisors on the History of Medicine in California frescoes at 
533 Parnassus Avenue, part of the UCSF campus. They then reviewed and commented on 
the draft Environmental Impact Report of the UCSF comprehensive Parnassus Heights 
plan. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 11