7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
So, one, congratulations Christine on your new position. It is a big loss for us at Planning 
but a great finishing for you on a promotion, so congratulations. We will certainly miss you.  
 
Welcome back, I guess, to Commissioner Tanner, who was with us in the Planning 
Department and is now back. Obviously in a different role, but we are extremely happy 
about that and looking forward to working with you.  
 
I also want to recognize and congratulate former Commissioner Melgar who appears to 
have been elected as District 7 Supervisor.  So, we look forward to serving with her on the 
commission. So, looking forward to working with her on the Board.  
 
I also wanted to note election-related that Prop H passed or is passing. It's got 62% of the 
vote. So, it will pass and becomes effective when the election is certified. So, I'd like to 
schedule an informational hearing here with you to talk about the details because it does 
change and streamline some of our processes in neighborhood commercial districts. So, 
we'll do that over the next couple of weeks. The basics of it is it requires a 30-day process 
for principally permitted uses to be acted upon. It reduces some of the noticing for 
principally permitted uses in neighborhood commercial districts. And it generally makes, 
you know, many of the uses we see, in those districts principally permitted that may have 
been conditionally permitted before things like general entertainment, movie theaters, 
community facilities, restaurants, limited restaurants, art activities, philanthropic and 
social services. So, we'll come back and give you more detail on that.  
 
I should also note that Mayor Breed has asked us to start working on making the Shared 
Spaces permanent within the Department and within the City. So, we're working with 
SFMTA and DPW on that. And some time too, we'll come back to you, it may require 
commission actions to make that permanent. 
 
Also, finally, I wanted to note that ABAG has opened up public comment on the RHNA 
allocation. So, the ABAG executive board approves the methodology for allocating the 
region’s RHNA housing goals to the various governments and jurisdictions. As we've talked 
about before, these numbers are increasing over two times what they were before but that 
public comment period to comment on the methodology is open and ends later this 
month on November 27th. And that’s all I have if there are no questions, that's my report.  
 
President Koppel:    
I think commissioner Moore has something.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission