24. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Hello commissioners. Again, thank you for bearing with us getting to this through on our 
hearings. I think that you were emailed earlier today, and we will post this online as well as 
under the director's report for next week, so the public has it. So we kind of put together a 
memo that shows our guidelines and goals for public participation for our comprehensive 
plans and policies both during this COVID crisis and we expect that as we come out of it, 
we're going to have some limitations on how we conduct public meetings. And obviously, 
you know it's crucial for us to engage the public in our work, especially when doing larger 
community planning and policy projects. We've got that housing element coming up and 
we obviously count on robust public input for that. So, we have published guidelines or 
put together guidelines for us to use internally. Obviously, we're relying on a number of 
ways to communicate with the public. If we can't do typical public meetings, everything 
from email and mail to posters, to video postings as well as online forums that the public 
can participate during and that we can record. So, please take a look at that. And if you 
have questions or comments, we can address them next week. And I also wanted to note 
that we published the 2019 Quarter 4 Housing Development Pipeline dashboard recently. 
It showed a slight uptick in projects in the pipeline and a couple percent increase of 3,000 
units up to 73,819 units. I think what is most notable is it shows a 26% increase and while 
it was under construction. And at the end of last year we had over 10,000 units under 
construction. Obviously, we anticipate that that's going to change, and we don't know to 
what extent as we entered into this crisis and as we come out of it. So, we will keep you 
posted on that. Thank you very much.   
 
25. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
The first item at Land Use hearing this week was Supervisor Peskin's Intermediate Length 
Occupancy or ILO Ordinance. This ordinance proposes to regulate occupancies and 
dwellings units of between 30 and 365 days and depends on the number of dwelling units 
in the building. The ordinance also amends the administrative code to prohibit non-tenant 
uses. These are the fine to include the renting of a unit to a corporate entity or other non-
natural person. Commissioners, you took action on this item on January 30th and 
recommended approval with modifications. Those modifications include enacting an 
interim control on new ILO, collecting data on the scale and location of ILO activity, and 
clarifying admin code amendments around exemptions for non-profit organizations. At 
Monday’s Land Use hearing after Supervisor Peskin gave an overview of the ordinance for 
the Committee, Supervisor Preston proposed an amendment to the ordinance that would 
allow for educational institutions to continue to lease housing to their faculty. Supervisor 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 30, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 15 of 17 
 
Peskin expressed his support for the amendment. Other comment was largely in 
opposition to the ordinance. The central complaint came from owners of small buildings of 
less than four units that would no longer be able to lease units for less than a year. After 
public comment, the Land Use Committee moved to incorporate Supervisor Preston's 
amendments and recommended the amended ordinance to the Full Board of supervisors.  
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Ronen's UMU ordinance. This ordinance 
proposes to have office uses within the UMU Zoning District and also requires CU for 
medical, financial and professional services uses. You heard this item at last week’s hearing 
where you recommended approval with modifications. Those modifications include 1) 
limiting the office prohibition to the Mission Area Plan; 2) maintaining the existing 
permissibility of medical, financial and professional service uses; and 3) adding a 
grandfathering clause to exempt projects having submitted development applications no 
later than the introduction date of the ordinance. At the Land Use hearing, Supervisor 
Ronen's office requested a one-week continuance to continue to craft and refine the 
grandfathering clause. Committee Chair Peskin did open up the public hearing for 
comment. All six speakers requested that a grandfathering clause be added to the 
ordinance. Once public comment ended the Committee voted unanimously to continue 
the item one week to May 4th of this year. And at the Board of Supervisor’s full hearing this 
week, there were no Planning department items. And that concludes my presentations 
and I'm available for questions if you have them. Thank you.