9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
None 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 4, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 13 of 20 
 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr:    
This week there were no Planning items at the Land Use Committee or the Full Board. 
However, there was a Planning item at this week’s Government Oversight Committee 
which considered Supervisor Mar’s ordinance to authorize the fee waiver for legalization of 
unauthorized dwelling units. This ordinance will renew the partial fee waiver program for 
another five years retroactive from January this year through the end of 2024. The 
Commission heard this item on April 16th and unanimously recommended the approval of 
the ordinance as proposed. During the GAO hearing DBI gave an overview of legalization 
program and Planning staff presented the Commission’s recommendations. There was no 
public comment and the Committee voted to recommend the item as a community report 
for the June 9th Board of Supervisor’s hearing. Lastly, supervisor Peskin introduced an 
ordinance on February 4, 2020 that would amend the Planning Code to allow the 
consolidation of ground floor storefronts in the North Beach Special Use district to 
accommodate the expansion of the existing police department station. The provision 
expires after three years unless extended. Currently, the consolidation of storefronts is 
prohibited in North Beach SUD. As this is an ordinance nearly tailored to allow the 
expansion of existing public facility, staff was not planning on bringing this item to the 
Planning Commission for review unless I hear differently from you today. That concludes 
my report and I am available for questions.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered one item that may be of interest 
to the Planning commission. 3600 Scott Street, the Board heard the appeal of the building 
permit application to provide a 2-foot extension to an existing deck. The Planning 
Commission heard this item as a DR in June 2019 and did not take DR and approved the 
project as proposed. The appellant argued that the deck addition violated a private 
agreement that he had with the permit holder. The permit holder argued that no 
agreement existed. The Board of Appeals noted that the City does not enforce private 
agreements and unanimously denied the appeal.