9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
AnMarie Rodgers: 
This is AnMarie Rodgers standing in for Director Hillis today. And I was going to share with 
you a little bit about our intern program that we have. This is important program that we 
have done for a few years managed by our senior planner, Tina Tam. And this year we have 
15 interns that are full time and paid. Because of COVID effects, they are working remotely. 
And we have shortened the internship just down to nine weeks this is year. We pair them 
with a planner, and they are tasked to work on a specific project and develop that and give 
presentations at the end of their program which is going to end the week of August 17th. We 
would like to express our -- how happy we are to have them here and appreciative of the 
work they're going to be performing, and we also like to invite these commissioners to 
participate in hearing the intern's -- [Inaudible]   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
It is hard to tell, but I am not sure if it is my computer or AnMarie seems as though -- AnMarie 
on my end, anyway, froze.   
 
Commissioner:    
I also see that. She’s – 
 
Commissioner Diamond:    
Yes, frozen for me, too.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
So unfortunately, AnMarie, you were cutting in and out on me. I thought it was my 
computer, so I moved closer to my router and it didn't help the issue. For your record, 
Commissioner Moore, I was informed that on other people's computers I was clear and 
audible without interruption. AnMarie, I am not sure if you can come back and try to 
reiterate any of those comments.  
 
Commissioner Moore:    
I wanted to welcome our intern students. Over the past year, Commissioners made 
themselves available and also participated at the final presentations when these students 
were kind of speaking to their work in the Department. I regret that you are all here without 
the true ability to interact with everybody in an exciting department and learn also from 
seeing our city directly. I hope you are all healthy and we hope we can meet you online at 
some point. Thank you.   
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 

San Francisco Planning Commission