7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Thank you very much for your words about Bob Passmore. He certainly 
was a legend in the Department and in the City and our condolences go out to his family.  
 
I wanted to mention that the Mayor nominated Rachael Tanner to fill Commissioner 
Johnson’s vacant seat on the Commission. Many of you know her. She's been a member of 
the Board of Appeals for the last couple of years. She is Assistant Director of Planning and 
Development Services in Palo Alto. She worked for the Planning Department here for a 
couple years working on the Excelsior Neighborhood Strategies. She was also a legislative 
aide with the Board of Supervisors. So, the next steps will be for the Board's committee to 
take up her nomination and we expect that to happen in the next week or so. That's my 
report. Thank you.   
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use 
 
• 
200701 Building Code - Mandating New Construction Be All-Electric. Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff:  Small. Item 1 
This week’s Land Use Committee did not have a Planning Code change but did 
discuss something that will impact this department and how we treat ground floor 
spaces. 
 
The Committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would require all 
new construction in San Francisco to be all electric. The need is clear, 37% of the City’s 
Green House Gases are attributed to the use of natural gas in buildings. Reducing the 
use of carbon-based energy is key stopping climate change, and to making San 
Francisco a greener and more sustainable city. 
 
However, a side effect of going all electric is that buildings will need to be designed 
to accommodate more transformers. As I’m sure this commission is aware, 
transformers have been a challenge from a design standpoint, particular with regards 
to retail storefronts and activation. In the grand scheme of things, this is a small 
challenge, but challenges like this one will become more common as we continue to 
modify our built environment to address climate change. 
 
During the hearing, San Francisco’s Department of the Environment did most of the 
presentation along with Supervisor Mandelman. Supervisor Peskin had several 
questions about what outreach was done and to which communities. 
 
There was significant public comment on this, with many people calling into the 
hearing to express support for de carbonizing our energy systems, and others 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 24, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
concerned about how outreach was done to impacted communities, particularly San 
Francisco’s Chinese community. 
 
While there seemed to be widespread support on the committee for the ordinance it 
was continued to October 5 in an effort to address community outreach concerns. 
 
Full Board 
 
• 
200673 Planning Code - Conversion of Certain Limited Restaurants to 
Restaurants - North Beach Neighborhood Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin. 
Staff: Malone/Starr Second Read, Item 23 
 
• 
200852 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezone Certain Industrial Parcels. Sponsor: 
Planning Commission. Staff: D. Sanchez. Second Read, Item 25 
 
At the Full Board this week, the Board passed on Second Read Supervisor Peskin’s 
ordinance that would allow limited Restaurants to convert to Restaurants in the 
North Beach SUD, and this Commission’s ordinance that would rezone certain M 
zoned parcels to PDR and other zoning districts. 
 
The Board also continued several CEQA and CU appeals for dates later in September 
and October. 
 
• 
200887 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental 
Review - Proposed 178 Seacliff Avenue Project. Items 26-28 
 
However, they did consider the Categorical Exemption Appeal for 178 Seacliff. The 
proposed project is the demolition of a large single-family home and construction of 
a new large single- family home. Commissioners, you heard this project as a 
Discretionary Review on June 11, 2020 and unanimously voted to approve the 
project. 
 
The appellant’s primary concerns related to aesthetics and historic resources. The 
existing building is a contributor to the potential Sea Cliff Historic District. The 
appellant expressed concern that the proposed demolition of the existing building 
would result in significant impacts to the potential historic district. 
 
The Department responded that the project is located in a transit priority area on an 
infill development site and therefore under CEQA, aesthetic impacts are not to be 
considered significant impacts. Although the existing building is a contributor to the 
California Register- eligible Sea Cliff Historic District, the proposed project would not 
materially impair the potential district; therefore, the project would not result in a 
substantial adverse change to a historic resource and it would not have a significant 
adverse effect on the environment under CEQA. 
 
This CEQA appeal resulted in a larger conversation among the supervisors regarding 
the demolition of contributors within adopted and eligible historic districts. 
Supervisors wondered with the continued demolition of contributors in a district, at 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 24, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
what point is a historic district no longer able to convey its historic significance and 
justify its inclusion in a local register of historical resources? 
 
In the end though, the Supervisors denied the appeal by a vote of 10 to 1, with 
Supervisor Fewer voting to uphold the appeal. 
 
I would also note, that while this project was not subject to Conditional Use 
authorization, a similar residential project today would require a Conditional Use. This 
is because of Supervisor Mandelman’s recent change to Section 317 that removed the 
demonstrably unaffordable clause for single family homes. 
 
And finally, on a more somber note, the architect for the project at 178 Seacliff, Lewis 
Butler, died last Thursday. Way back when I was a budding young planner in the 
North West Quadrant, I had the fortune of working with Mr. Butler on numerous 
projects. What I remember most about him was how he treated me with respect and 
his great sense of humor. He was an exceptional architect with high standards that 
seemed to manifest effortlessly. I think this quote from his wife, Catherine Armsden, 
from an article in the Chronicle about his death sums it up nicely. 
 
“His strength was that he always exuded confidence and a can-do attitude. Lewis’ 
firm was known for being an exceptionally happy place to work because every idea 
was respected, and everyone was given independence on their projects. He never had 
a boss’ arrogance. He did, however, have a great sense of humor and a self-effacing 
charm.” 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet yesterday and considered one item that may be of 
interest to the Planning Commission. The Board heard the appeal of a letter of 
determination for the property of 150 Morningside Drive. The determination found 
that two 80 square feet storage sheds on the subject property did not comply with 
the Planning Code which limits such structures to no more than one — of more than 
100 square feet. The Board agreed that the two storage sheds did not comply with 
the Planning Code because they exceeded the 100 square feet in total, but the Board 
did find that more than one structure may be allowed, may be allowed provided that 
the total contiguous area of the structure is no more than 100 square feet. The Board 
also requested that the Planning Department and Department of Building Inspection 
not enforce on the subject’s storage structures for 36 months due to the need cited 
by the owner. And that the structures provided storage for healthcare materials for a 
family member. The Board adjourned their meeting in memory of former Zoning 
Administrator, Bob Passmore, and shared comments of appreciation for Bob’s 40 
years of service to San Francisco.