7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
John Rahaim, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Commissioners. If you’ll bear with me just for a 
couple of minutes. It's hard to imagine that this is my last time sitting in this chair. It's 
going to be a little harder than I thought. It's been my great honor and my challenge of my 
career to be here. And I want to thank you all for that. This Commission has been an 
incredible supporter of me and the Department over the last 12 years. And I just wanted to 
mention a couple of things that I – that kind of moving forward in my career and for you 
all. You know I've been doing this now for 37 years in three different cities. And what I've 
learned over the last several decades is that we do, in fact, need to grow our cities and 
grow our cities substantially to accommodate the changes that we're seeing here and 
across the world, but I also think that we have to change the way we do our work to 
accommodate that growth gracefully and with soul and without displacement. And I really 
have come to believe that we can do that, but we have to do it by thinking differently 
about how we do some of our work. I think it is one of the challenges of the last decade for 
me, and the department has been responding to the incredible pace of change, which has 
been greater than the changes in many, many years of before. And I think that pace of 
change will continue, and it will accelerate. And I do think that it's important upon -- it’s 
incumbent upon this Commission and the Department and the City as a whole to kind of 
learn how to be more nimble in responding to that change. City government, also, is not 
very nimble, but somehow these changes are coming at us at a pace that we never 
anticipated before. So, my advice as you go forward is to try to be more nimble in 
responding to that change. And embracing the notion that we can grow without 
displacement and grow with soul as the city continues on this trajectory. So, I thank you all 
again for this great honor.  
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
John, it has been a great honor to get to know you personally and professionally. From the 
day that I met you until now, I'm incredibly just always struck by your kindness and your 

San Francisco Planning Commission