6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, commissioners. I just wanted to make one announcement. You have been 
getting some emails and public comment about 317 and our demo calcs. Obviously, a 
topic we have talked about over the years, where we have had proposals and the Board 
has proposals. But I just wanted to let you know, we are working on it, both coming up 
with our own potential changes to 317, as well as working with supervisors who are also 
working on this issue. So, we will be bringing it before you. I don't necessarily have a 
timeline yet but either through a board proposal or our own, this issue, you know, we 
intend to bring back to you. Thanks.   
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon Commissioner’s, Aaron Starr Planning Department Staff.  
 
The Land Use Committee was once again bereft of Planning Department attendance this 
week; however, at the Full Board there were a few appeals.  
 
• 
200942 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Disapproval - 552-554 
Hill Street. Special Order, 3:00 PM, Items 41-44  
 
First up was the appeal of a Conditional Use authorization that this commission denied for 
the project at 552-554 Hill Street. The project sponsor, who is also the appellant, requested 
prior to the hearing that the item be continued for one month. The Board obliged and 
continued the item to November 10.  
 
• 
200992 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental 
Review - Proposed 2001-37th Avenue Project. Special Order, 3:00 PM, Items 45-48  
 
• 
200996 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization - 2001-37th Avenue. 
Special Order, 3:00 PM, Items 49-52  
 
Next up was the CU and CEQA appeals for the installation of four 90-foot-tall light poles for 
the athletic stadium at St. Ignatius. The project also includes the installation of a Verizon 
Wireless facility on one of the poles.  
 
This Commission heard this item On July 23, 2020 and approved the CU with conditions. 
The Planning Commission’s conditions of approval limited the school’s use of the lights to 
certain times of the day and a limit on the total number of days a year. This decision also 
constituted the Approval Action for the purposes of CEQA.  
 
For the CU appeal, the appellants claimed that the project does not meet the necessary 
and desirable threshold required for CU approval; that The Verizon Wireless project does 
not meet the requirements of the WTS Facilities Siting Guidelines, and that the height of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 8, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
the lighting poles and wireless facility should not be exempted under the Planning Code. 
The appellant’s primary concerns with the CEQA appeal were that project did not fit within 
the Class 1 and Class 3 exemption, and that the project presented unusual circumstances 
that could result in a significant environmental impact.  
 
Public comment went on for several hours, enough time to prep a roast a chicken to 175 
degrees and then let rest for 15 minutes, with many neighbors of the school calling in to 
support the appeal, and then a significant number of students and alumni of St. Ignatius 
who supported the project.  
 
For the CU, Planning staff responded by defending the Planning Commission’s decision 
that on balance found the project was desirable to the community at large. We also 
corrected the misinterpretation of the WTS siting guidelines and the Planning Code’s 
height limits.  
 
For the CEQA appeal the Department’s defense was that the proposed alteration to the 
existing facility is eligible as a categorical exemption and that the project did not represent 
an unusual circumstance under CEQA. To substantiate the former point, the Department 
identified 18 athletic fields in residential neighborhoods in San Francisco that have 
evening lighting. Staff then explained that evening lighting and noise from athletic events 
near residential areas is not unusual per CEQA.  
 
Supervisor Mar questioned the actual necessity and desirability to the neighborhood and 
community. It seemed initially like he was going to make a motion to overturn the 
Planning Commission’s decision; however, he instead made a motion to uphold the CEQA 
determination and continued the CU Appeal for two weeks to October 20. He said he 
would continue to work with the two parties to try and come to a resolution before then.  
 
• 
200981 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Community Plan Evaluation - 
Proposed 1088 Howard Street Project. Special Order, 3:00 PM, Items 53-56  
 
Lastly, the Board considered the CEQA Appeal for the Community Plan Evaluation for the 
proposed project at 1088 Howard Street. 
 
The project proposes to merge two lots, demolish the existing single-story industrial 
building while preserving the façade, and constructing a seven- story mixed-use 
residential and commercial building with 24 units and 2,500 square feet of commercial 
space.  
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on June 4, 2020 as a Discretionary Review and 
voted to take DR and approved the project with modifications. The modification was that 
the proposed building wall be set back one foot from the western interior property line to 
allow adjacent property line windows to function.  
 
The project site and neighboring parcel are within the air pollutant exposure zone. 
Adjacent neighbors appealed the CPE because of concerns over air quality during 
construction and sewer capacity once the building is constructed. While acknowledging 
the disruption and inconvenience of adjacent construction activities, staff addressed the 
effectiveness of the Eastern Neighborhoods construction air quality and noise mitigation 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 8, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
measures. Staff also explained why the project would not exacerbate the existing sewer 
back up conditions at the neighboring property.  
 
In the end the Board did not feel that the appeal had merits under CEQA and voted to 
uphold the determination. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and after approving a permit to 
alter, 1035 Howard Street, for the restoration of an existing art-deco building and the -- 
and a rear addition; they adopted resolutions recommending nominations for the Mission 
Cultural Center for Latino Arts, Centro Cultural de la Misión at Mission Street, as well as 535 
Green Street, the Buon Gusto sausage factory. After which they considered the 
preservation alternatives for draft Environmental Impact Report for property of 2500 
Mariposa Street, the Potrero Charlie Coach Division maintenance and operations facility.