9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just a couple of quick announcements. One, I wanted to 
let you know that we’re planning to calendar an informational hearing in early October to 
give you a presentation and data on the economic impacts of the pandemic and the City’s 
initial response to the Economic Recovery Task Force. And we’re hoping to have those 
representatives from the Controller as well as the Task Force to join us during that 
presentation. The hope is that this hearing will be a springboard for us to start discussing 
the long-term land use implications of the pandemic. I recognized that the impacts, 
especially the long-range impacts of the pandemic, are still being understood. But I think it 
is clear to all of us that the crisis will make a mark both physically and socially on the City 
that we should anticipate and respond to. So, I look forward to having that discussion with 
you. 
 
I also wanted to let you know that the state wrapped up its legislative session recently. 
And after a flurry of initial bills related to Land Use and Housing, only a few made it to the 
governor’s desk. We’re in the midst of analyzing those and we’ll report back to you either 
by a memo or a hearing in the coming weeks. And that concludes my report. Thanks. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 3, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Legislative Manager: 
 
Good afternoon, commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. I am still here. 
Apparently, you need to be able to dance and sing to be on Broadway, seems you are stuck 
with me for the foreseeable future. Thank you very much for indulging me and my attempt 
to humor. I made some people laugh and apparently confused some people. There was 
quite a few of my colleagues if I was actually leaving the Department to perform in the 
musical, Hair. So, I guess the joke was a success. I don’t know. It’s hard to read a virtual 
room, but my attempt was just to pause and acknowledge the extraordinary time we’re all 
going through right now. A lot of people are suffering, and it isn’t an easy time for anyone. 
So, I would like to thank the Commission for your continued professionalism and 
dedication to your role despite it all. And also, to the Planning Department and of the City 
Agencies that continue to conduct the City’s business during this extremely challenging 
time. So, thank you. 
• 
200673 Planning Code - Conversion of Certain Limited Restaurants to Restaurants - North 
Beach Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Starr. Item 3 
This week at the Land Use hearing the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s 
ordinance that would allow certain Limited Restaurants the ability to convert to 
Restaurants in the North Beach SUD. Commissioner’s you heard this last week and 
recommended approval with several amendments, mainly to make the program work as 
intended. You also recommended that the Supervisors consider this program in other 
neighborhoods of the city.  
At the hearing, Supervisor Peskin amended the ordinance to reflect the recommendations 
you made; however, at this time no other Supervisor chose to duplicate this program. That 
still could happen as it moves through the Board process. As the amendments were 
deemed substantive, the item was continued to the next Land Use hearing, which because 
of the Labor Day holiday will be two-week continuance instead of one.  
• 
200800 Hearing - Appeal of Revised Final Mitigated Negative Declaration - Proposed 3516 
and 3526 Folsom Street Project. Staff: Gibson. Continued to September 15 
 
• 
200883 Hearing - Appeal of Statutory Exemption from Environmental Review - MTA - Slow 
Streets, Phase 1. Staff: Gibson. 
The Board did take up the CEQA appeal on MTA’s Slow Streets, Phase 1, project. This 
project did not come from the Planning Commission, but I’m sure most of you are aware of 
the program. A series of streets in San Francisco have been opened up to pedestrian and 
cyclists, while limiting private automobiles access. This was done to provide more space for 
people to recreate and move around the city in a socially distant manner. There have been 
two phases of slow streets implemented thus far and a third phases is pending.  The 
appellant has also filed a CEQA appeal for Phase 2. 
The project received a statutory exemption under CEQA for EMERGENCY PROJECTS, which 
is intended for Specific actions necessary to prevent or mitigate an emergency.  
The appellant contends that the CEQA determinations for the Slow Streets was in error 
because there was no emergency on the streets that were closed, and thus you could not 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 3, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
use that statutory exemption to provide more space on the streets for pedestrians and 
cyclists. 
Planning Staff laid out a very clear case that they were responding to a declared 
emergency, the COVID pandemic, which requires San Franciscan’s to maintain a distance 
of 6’ from other persons and to wear a mask while in public. Given the limited width of 
sidewalks and lack of outdoor spaces that can accommodate such a requirement, the CEQA 
determination was in fact correct. 
It appeared the Board didn’t buy the appellants argument, and after a fairly length public 
comment period, it quickly voted to uphold the CEQA determination and deny the appeal.  
• 
200955 Urging the Association of Bay Area Governments in the Regional Housing Needs 
Allocation Process to Focus on Unmet Needs for Affordable Housing. Sponsors: Mar; Ronen. 
Staff: N/A. Adoption. 
Finally, the Board considered Supervisor Mar’s resolution urging ABAG in the RHNA 
allocation process to focus on unmet needs for affordable housing. Rather than asking 
ABAG for lower moderate and above moderate housing goals in San Francisco, the 
Resolution was amended by the Board to focus more on displacement of marginalized 
communities and prioritize increases to the region’s above-moderate RHNA allocation in 
high resource and high opportunity jurisdictions. It also asked for ABAG to consider past 
over-performance in the above-moderate income category when assigning the 2022-2030 
above-moderate RHNA allocations. The amendments were approved and then the Board 
sent the Resolution back to the Land Use Committee.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I will have a brief report for the Historic Preservation Commission that did meet yesterday. 
Only to note that the hearing was extremely brief. We had about a 15-minute hearing. 
Everything was approved under Consent.