9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just a couple of quick items. One, I want to let you know, 
you may already know this, that President Yee of the Board of Supervisors has nominated 
Deland Chan to fill Commissioner Richard’s vacant seat. She has to go to the Committee 
and then to the Full Board. So, I think as early as two weeks, she may be able to sit on the 
Commission. She currently works at Stanford as an educator and a researcher in urban 
planning and had formally been a senior planner at CCDC. So obviously well qualified and 
familiar with our work. So, we look forward to that working its way through the process. 
Also want to let you know Eric Shaw was appointed as the Director of the Mayor’s Office of 
Community Development. He started last week.  Dan Adams had been the acting director. 
He’s got experience and background in Planning with DC and Economic Development with 
Salt Lake City. Most recently he was working for the State of California recovery efforts 
related to the fires. So, you'll no doubt see him in the coming weeks.  
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
At this week's Land Use hearing, Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that would prohibit office 
uses in the UMU District was continued to May 11th of this year. Also, in the agenda was 
Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would remove the demonstrably unaffordable 
provision from Planning code section 317. Commissioners, you heard this item on April 
23rd and voted to recommend approval with a modification to add a grandfathering 
clause. At the Land Use hearing, Supervisor Mandelman added the grandfathering clause 
and another minor clarifying amendment. In addition, Supervisor Peskin also proposed 
two amendments of his own to section 317 which would significantly expand the 
definition of what is considered a de facto demolition. That amendment would strike the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 7, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
word “and” in Sections 317(b)(2)(b) and (c) and replace them with an “or”. This seemingly 
simple change would have tremendous impact on the number and types of projects that 
this commission would see. For example, the de facto demolition would now be the 
removal of more than 50% of the sum of the front facade and rear facade or the removal of 
more than 65% of the sum of all exterior walls. Previously a project had to meet both of 
these criteria to be considered de facto demolition. The impact to this Commission, the 
Department and future projects would be significant. Staff estimates that this change 
would put an additional 445 projects that are currently pending at the Department on the 
Commission's docket. While this amendment was not debated by the Planning 
Commission, Peskin was able to make this amendment because this idea was clearly stated 
at the hearing. In this case, it was proposed by a Planning Commissioner. Since it was 
mentioned at the hearing, giving the Planning Commission an opportunity to discuss the 
concept, the amendment could be made. Staff pushed back on Supervisor Peskin’s 
proposed amendment because of the impact it would have, not only on staff time but also 
on the commission’s calendar, and on small businesses seeking a CU approval post shelter 
in place. We also don't believe this is the right fix for 317 and will likely make the process 
worse with few benefits. There was some significant back and forth between staff and the 
committee members mainly Supervisor Peskin. He felt that we are being inconsistent on 
our analysis. We attempted to better explain our position. Supervisor Safai expressed 
reservations about pushing something like this through without Planning staff analyzing 
the impacts and thought a more wholistic approach to revising 317 was warranted. He 
mentioned his legislation that set a limit on home size and encourages density as a 
possible approach. There were about 50 members of the public that commented on this 
item. Many were opposed that Peskin proposed amendments and a good number have 
spoken in favor of Supervisor Mandelman’s original ordinance. In the end, the Committee 
voted to amend Supervisor Mandelman’s original ordinance as he had proposed. They 
then duplicated the ordinance and voted to add Supervisor Peskin’s amendments that he 
sent the original ordinance to the Full Board with a positive recommendation and then 
continue Peskin’s duplicative ordinance to the call of the chair. 
 
And at the Full Board this week, Supervisor Peskin and Fewer’s ILO ordinance pass its first 
read.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered one item that may be of interest 
to the Planning Commission. 3426–3432 22nd Street, the Board of Appeals heard the 
appeal of the revocation request issued by the Department of Building Inspection for 
multiple permits of the subject property. The Board initially heard this item on December 
4, 2019 and at that hearing, the Board continued the item to allow the appellant additional 
time to resolve the outstanding enforcement issues with the Department of Building 
Inspection and the Planning Department. Since that time, the appellant has augmented 
their project team and provided plans that accurately reflect the scope of work that was 
performed on the subject building. The appellant has also provided the materials for the 
required neighborhood notification and variance hearing. At the hearing last night, the 
parties jointly requested that the Board of Appeals grant the appeal and overturn the 
revocation of the permit to allow time for the appellant to cancel their permits and submit 
revised permits and plans that accurately reflect the scope of work on the subject property.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 7, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 8 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday for the second time remotely. 
Among a variety of items, they heard the Certified Local Government Program annual 
report. They approved the landmarking of the New Royal Bakery on Mission Street and also 
received an informational presentation related to the Small Business Commission and 
Legacy Business Program.