8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
 
At this week's Land Use Committee, there was just one item which was continued from last 
week and that was the Authorizing Interim Activities at Development Sites sponsored by the 
mayor and Supervisor Haney. That was recommended to the full board.  
 
 
At the Rules Committee this week, the committee passed out -- approved the appointment 
for Maria Imperial for the Planning Commission and that will be voted on next week. And 
then at the full board this week, the Jackson Square Special Use District Grandfathering 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 6, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
Provision sponsored by Supervisor Peskin passed its second read and the North of Market 
Affordable Housing Fees and Citywide Affordable Housing Fund sponsored by the mayor 
passed its first read.  
 
 
Lastly, the board considered the CEQA appeal for the Page Street Bike Improvement pilot 
project. The project would involve a 12-month pilot to study the effects of several traffic 
circulation changes to the study area. Construction associated with the project would 
primarily include restriping travel lanes and the addition of signage with the intention of 
restricting private vehicle traffic and prioritizing bicycle traffic within the study area. The 
appellant, the Coalition for Adequate Review was represented by Mary Miles who provided 
an overview of the appeal. The appellant contended that the project did not qualify for a 
Class 6 Categorical Exemption which relates to information collection. The pilot projects are 
defined as information collection or as part of the study leading to an action which the public 
agency has not yet approved, adopted, or funded. The appellant said that the project 
couldn’t possibly be a pilot project because SFMTA approved and funded the pilot. One 
speaker spoke in favor of the appeal. He introduced a noble argument against cycling, 
stating that cyclists create more greenhouse gases because they eat more food than non-
cyclists. And therefore, cycling is more environmentally harmful than driving. Planning staff 
gave a very efficient 2-minute rebuttal to the appellant’s claims pointing out that the only 
way SFMTA could study the pilot’s effect was by funding it. If there was no discretion to 
approve or fund the pilot by SFMTA, then it wouldn't be subject to CEQA. At the end of staff’s 
presentation, President Yee stated that was one of the best presentations by a department 
ever. Several people came out and spoke out against the appeal, including representatives 
from the San Francisco Bicycle Advisory Committee, Walk San Francisco and the Hayes Valley 
Neighborhood Association. In the end, the board voted unanimously to deny the appeal. 
And that concludes my report.  Thanks. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. They considered the 
department’s work program and budget which they adopted recommendation for 
approval, and you'll be considering next Thursday. They heard a very interesting 
informational presentation by an intern, GG Gunther, on the Mural Projects in San Francisco, 
as well as initiating landmark status for the New Royal Bakery on Mission Street.