14. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas and thank you commissioners. Thank you for all your support and 
guidance over the past month that I had been on the job. And thank you for staff for all of 
the work you have done and the flexibility you have shown over this past month. It has 
been, obviously as people have said, it has been an unprecedented situation that we have 
had that led to an incredible level of change – an incredible pace of change that we have 
all seen and recognized. And we recognized this is not business as usual. And that the 
impact of this crisis will likely continue after the shelter in place order is lifted. We are 
already getting indications from the Mayor’s office about the general fund impacts and the 
budget impacts that we will see. The unemployment impacts we are already seeing. 
Particularly the impacts to small businesses and commercial corridors. I think we can all 
anticipate a level of – increase level of vacancies on commercial corridors. And all of these 
impacts clearly will be magnified and felt harder in our most vulnerable communities. So 
all of this will likely necessitate a change in re-prioritization of our work program or 
strengthening in areas and we would like to come and agendize that for a future hearing 
and come talk to you and get your feedback and the public’s feedback on potential 
changes to our workload program. Certainly, some of the priorities around housing, 
affordable housing and community stabilization, those priorities will be intensified. 
Building housing and making sure we have the right supply, the right sizes of units in the 
right neighborhoods. Building more equitably throughout the city and not just in the 
eastern portion of the city. Finding new ways to build affordable housing and fund 
affordable housing. Strengthening and broadening our community stabilization work and 
our racial and social equity work in disadvantage communities are going to be particularly 
important. Our Housing Affordability Strategy, phase 2 of our Racial and Social Equity plan 
which have already been continued, I think are going to be key and extremely important. 
So, we want to come back and make sure that work is coordinated and prioritized. Also, 
our work in commercial corridors, strengthening existing businesses, providing more 
flexibility to fill vacancies is another area we are working on and working with the Mayor’s 
economic recovery team to make sure we have policies that will help small businesses in 
commercial corridors.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 16 
 
As far as current operations, the department remains open obviously at reduced capacity. 
Our investment and technology and your encouragement over the years has paid off with 
us digitizing files being able to accept applications online so staff deserves a ton of credit 
for that. We will continue to prioritize essential projects, housing projects, affordable 
housing projects but we recognize there is going to be a slowdown due to our ability to 
engage with the community. And I think commissioner Koppel and commissioner Imperial, 
you both touched up on that. So, definitely more to come on this issue and our response 
but this will not end when we are back and the shelter in place is lifted. So, we do want to 
come back and talk to you on potential changes to our work program. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Hillis, I would be very interested to hear as you think that the slowdown and 
shelter in place has any effect on the department making its move into the new building.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
So far in our discussions, it has not. So, construction was continuing, at least as of last 
week. So, there has not been a slowdown. That may change as the definition of essential 
projects continues to evolve. So, we will keep you posted but to date it is still on schedule.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Johnson: 
I just wanted to say welcome Director Hillis. I have always appreciated your bold vision, 
your genuine desire to engage community across perspectives to challenge and be 
challenged and your clear and deep commitment to the city of San Francisco. And while 
these are certainly challenging times for all of us, I am glad that you are at the helm and 
just want to echo some of the other people’s comments of thanks to staff and to you for 
working during this challenging time. Agreed that this is not business as usual and we will 
not make it to business as usual for a long time. And I look forward to working with you, 
with everyone on staff, to make it through these challenges to change our work to make it 
relevant – more relevant to these times of meeting the needs of our communities. And 
hopefully to aid both in the recovery and the vibrancy of our city going forward. So 
welcome and thank you. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Despite the unusual circumstances it is your very first meeting Director Hillis and I want to 
welcome you as well too and let you know how much I am looking forward to working 
with you. We have enormous challenges in front of us as a result of all of the impacts of 
COVID-19 and I am very glad you are at the helm to lead us through this. So welcome. 
 
Commissioner Fung: 
Welcome. Very good to see you. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 16 
 
 
15. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There was no Historic Preservation Commission over the last several weeks nor was there a 
Board of Appeals hearing over the last several weeks. They both hope to reconvene on 
April 15th. 
 
Aaron Starr: 
The Board has been meeting for the past two weeks so my report this week will cover both 
of those weeks.  
 
At the Land Use hearing on March 30th, the community considered two Planning Code 
amendments. The first was Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that will regulate intermediate 
length occupancy which includes rental agreements that last between 30 and 365 days. 
This item was not acted on and instead was continued to the call of the Chair with no 
public commenters or presentation. The second item was the code corrections ordinance 
that the Planning Commission sponsored. This ordinance would amend the Planning Code 
to correct typographical error, update cross-references and make non-substantive revision 
to clarify and simplify code language. The proposed ordinance also makes minor 
substantive amendments regarding the timing of fee and by adding an additional fee 
waiver for buildings damaged or destroyed by fire or other calamity. The Planning 
Commission heard this item on December 12th of last year and recommended the board 
approve the ordinance with the following modifications. The first one was requesting that 
the Board also update Planning Code references in the Administrative Health and Police 
codes. And the second one was an amendment to clarify which streets in the Better Streets 
plan will be protected from curb cuts. There is no public comment at the Land Use 
Committee and after closing public comment, the committee moved to recommend the 
item to the full Board.  
 
There were no items at the full Board last week.  
 
This week the Land Use Committee considered one Planning Code amendment which was 
Supervisor Yee’s Ocean Avenue NCT District ordinance. This ordinance proposes to 1) add 
an additional conditional use authorization consideration for large size projects in all 
neighborhood commercial districts; 2) allow lot mergers in the Ocean Avenue NCT of up to 
50 feet; 3) exempt entertainment community facility, restaurant and tobacco 
paraphernalia uses from neighborhood notice in the Ocean Avenue NCT; and 4) allow arts 
and activity uses within the Ocean Avenue NCT. Commissioners, you heard this item on 
February 20th and voted unanimously to approve the ordinance with modifications. Those 
modifications included 1) allowing lot mergers resulting in frontages of greater than 50 
feet to occur midblock not just that corners; 2) allow flexible retail use within the Ocean 
Avenue NCT; and 3) other clarifying amendments. Overall, community members expressed 
support for the ordinance. Questions for the sponsor and staff centered on the 
requirements for lot mergers. And there was one public commenter who is not in support 
of the ordinance. After public comment, Land Use Committee voted unanimously to 
recommend the ordinance with only clarifying amendments. However, the Commission’s 
other recommended modifications were not included.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 16 
 
 
And at the full Board this week, the Board considered two planning related items. The first 
was the American Indian Cultural District which was sponsored by all eleven supervisors 
and passed unanimously. And the second one was the code corrections ordinance 
sponsored by the Planning Commission which passed its first read. And that concludes my 
report. Thank you.