11. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just a couple of items. One, I wanted to give you an 
update; I mentioned previously that the Mayor had established an economic recovery task 
force. That work is starting this week and the task force has been put together. I think 
there are close to 100 people if not more on it. I am going to serve on it, former 
Commissioner Fong as well as Assessor Chu are amongst the co-chairs. So, we'll come back 
to through either a director’s report or an informational item to update you on the task 
force's work. Our staff will be involved, as well. I also wanted to thank and note, many of 
our staff are working currently as disaster service workers. As city employees, we all have 
an obligation to serve as disaster service workers and we have about 20 or more 
employees serving now who have served in various capacities from front-line staff to 
helping with some of the planning efforts. So, I wanted to just recognize and thank them. 
And that's my report.  
 
12. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Good afternoon Commissioners. Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. At this week’s 
Land Use Committee hearing, there were no Planning related items. At the Board of 
Supervisors this week, however, the Potrero Plant Station mixed use project, general plan, 
planning code, zoning map and development agreement all passed their second read. 
Also, the Bayview Industrial Triangle redevelopment area re-zoning and planning code 
amendment passed their second read. The Geary Masonic Special Use District sponsored 
by Supervisor Stephani passed its second read. And the Ocean Avenue ordinance 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 23, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
sponsored by Supervisor Yee also passed its second read. And that's all I have for you 
today.  
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and conducted their first remote hearing. The 
Board use Zoom for the hearing and broadcast via SFGovTV taking public comment using 
the Zoom conference line. Everything went smoothly and the Board's next hearing will be 
on May 6th. The Board heard one item that may be of interest to the Commission.  25 17th 
Avenue, a permit for horizonal addition and to legalize the removable of a bay window 
that was remove without permit. The Planning Commission heard this item as a DR in July 
of 2019 and at this hearing, the Planning Commission took DR and required restoration of 
the bay window that extended over the property line into the adjacent property at 27 17th 
Avenue. At that hearing, the Planning Commission also heard a DR for the proposed new 
construction on the adjacent lot approving the project with modifications to account for 
the restored bay. However, the permit has not yet been issued and was not the subject of 
the appeal. In approving this subject permit pursuant to the Commission’s decision, the 
Planning Department allowed the project sponsor to remove windows from the restored 
bay that face directly onto the new construction in order to be consistent with the 
Residential Design Guidelines. The appellants, who are the DR requestors in this case, 
argued that the Commission’s decision required that all windows be restored. The Board of 
Appeals which heard the matter DiNovo upheld the permit as approved by the Planning 
Department finding that the proposal was code complaint and complied with the 
Residential Design Guidelines.