8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just thank you for those words again. I think, it's amazing you all have been willing to jump 
in and take on major issues during extremely challenging times for us all, for all San 
Franciscans. So, thank you for continuing to push on major policy issues around Equity, 
around Housing and around Economic Recoveries. It's been a challenging year, but I think 
you've all shown – you know, we can’t stand still. We’ve got to continue to push on the 
challenges we face. So, thank you. I did want to note something we talked about earlier 
before the meeting. You may have seen the Mayor’s Budget instructions or articles on the 
Mayor’s Budget instructions. The Mayor's Office has asked us to come to them with a 7.5% 
General Fund reduction and then a 2.5% contingency, so, in essence, a plan for a 10% 
reduction. We'll be coming to you, and have a series of meetings or a couple of meetings at 
the Commission, I think, one January 21st or the 14th. So next month, we'll start to talk to you 
about that. And we’ve got the General Fund reduction to deal with, as well as, the impact 
that we're seeing on our fee revenue. So, we’ll talk more about that. And that’s all I have to 
report. Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I have a question that probably echoes other people’s question as well. There is no way of 
avoiding the mandate for that reduction. If we would find some convincing arguments that 
we can really only contribute 6% and maybe have a number in the General Fund. There’s no 
way of avoiding the bar she has set. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Correct. I mean, I think if we can, you know, fill that reduction from other sources of revenues 
that’s a way to do it, but the City is facing a $650 million shortfall over the next two years. 
So, it’s you know, obviously incredibly challenging across the entire City. And every 
department is being asked to carry their weight and come up with the General Fund 
reduction along the same lines we’re being asked to do. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
So, the answer is no. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission