10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Thank you, Commissioners, and we will follow up on the items you 
brought up. One, thank you for those that attended our staff brown bag lunch with Bill 
Gilchrist on Monday. I think it was a productive conversation. And thank you, Commissioner 
Moore for suggesting it. Certainly, it was well received by staff.  
 
I want to let you know that Liz Watty, who I think all of you know and are familiar with her 
work, has accepted my offer to be the Director of Citywide Planning. She has been acting in 
that role. She was Acting Director -- I mean Deputy Director for seven years. She's been with 
the Department 15 years. Started actually as an intern and moved her way up to Planner I, 
II, and III and now Director. So, I'm sure you’ve recognized her work and we look forward to 
continuing to work with her. One of the first things and the current thing she's tackling and 
something she was tackling, even as Deputy Director, is expanding our services working 
with DBI, who we’re working cooperatively with to expand our permit services both in-
person to the extent that we can, and allowed by the Health Department, and online. As you 
know, our revenues continue to suffer both from the economic conditions and metering the 
allowable people being allowed into the Permit Center to file for permits. So, we will 
continue to update you and she will continue to work on that.  
 
Bridget, during the Prop H informational, may bring this up as well, but I just wanted to let 
you know that the Mayor issued an Executive Directive this morning for -- related to 
implementation of Prop H focused on the city coming together in working to meet some of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 19, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
the timelines in Prop H. It has a 30-day timeline for us to issue permits for small businesses. 
So for us, the Department of Building Inspection, the Health Department, Fire Department, 
and others to work together to come up with a plan to make sure we can implement the 
voter mandates in Prop H, but you'll hear more about that from Bridget during the 
informational session. So, thank you, that concludes my report.   
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Yes, I have a question for Director Hillis, and perhaps he's going to address this in 
conjunction with the Prop H discussion; but John King wrote a really interesting article in 
the Chronicle a few days ago about winterizing retail uses that we're seeing with 
entertainment and restaurants. And I was curious where the Economic Recovery team is in 
helping to promote and expedite whatever is necessary in order to allow for that 
winterization.   
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Great question, Commissioner Diamond, and Robin Abad is here and will address that as 
part of the informational on Prop H, as will also address parklets.   
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Great. Thank you.   
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon commissioners, Aaron Starr Planning Department Staff. 
 
This week there were no items concerning the Planning Department at the Land Use 
Committee.  
 
At the Full Board, the Board continued all but one appeal, the CEQA appeal for the proposed 
Whole Foods on Geary and Masonic.  
 
The project proposes a new Whole Foods grocery store (with a restaurant and coffee shop) 
to move into a vacant 50,000 square foot retail space at the City Center shopping center.  
 
Commissioners, you heard and approved this Formula Retail conditional use application on 
June 25, 2020.  
 
The Appellant’s primary concerns were that the Department had underestimated the daily 
loading demand and, consequently, the potential air quality impacts of the project.  
 
The project sponsor submitted a consultant-prepared loading demand analysis which 
confirmed the Department’s calculations of loading demand. The project sponsor and the 
appellant both submitted consultant-prepared air quality studies that reached different 
conclusions. The Department then directed its own air quality study and a peer review of 
these other studies. The Department’s analysis found air quality impacts to be well below 
significance thresholds.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 19, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
During the hearing, public comment in support of the project was focused on the benefits 
that a grocery store would have at this location, and the desire to fill a long vacant space. 
 
Public comments in support of the appeal were focused on the business practices of Whole 
Foods Market and its parent company Amazon, particularly the lack of worker benefits or 
labor union representation. Others cited the potential for traffic and air quality impacts.  
 
One issue that came up during the hearing was that the Department rescinded its original 
Class 32 exemption and issued a commonsense exemption once the appeal was filed. This 
was based on new direction from the State Water Board that no longer allows a Class 32 to 
be issued when a project site is on the Cortese list, as this site is. During the hearing, 
Supervisor Peskin opined that rescinding the Class 32 should have invalidated the CU.  
 
In issuing a commonsense exemption, the Department found that there was no possibility 
that a significant environmental impact could occur. Several supervisors were unconvinced 
of this citing the volume of trips to the site and the conflicting findings in the air quality 
reports. There was some discussion about labor practices by Whole Foods and Amazon, as 
well.  
 
In the end, the Board unanimously upheld the CEQA appeal on the grounds that it could not 
be seen with certainty that there would not be any significant air quality impacts. The 
department awaits the final motion to determine whether this action results in implications 
to our CEQA review that are beyond this project. And that concludes my report for today. 
Thank you. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Hey Jonas, I just wanted to clarify because I did not mean to offer Liz the job of Citywide 
Planning. She’s a Director of Current Planning. So, I misspoke and AnMarie still here 
obviously.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Thank you. I think everybody understood what you meant. Commissioners, the Board of 
Appeals did meet, and there's actually a tardy report from the Assistant Zoning 
Administrator. He wanted to convey that on November 4, 2020, the Board of Appeals met 
and heard an appeal of a rear yard variance for 1222 Funston Avenue. This project involves 
a demolition of the garage at the front of the lot and addition of a new single-family 
dwelling at the front. The variance is required because the project does not maintain 25 
percent between the new dwelling and an existing noncomplying structure at the rear of 
the lot. The Planning Commission heard an associated DR for this project on July 23rd and 
voted to not take DR. The Board of Appeals upheld the Zoning Administrator's approval of 
the variance but required an additional condition that no further decks be added to the new 
building.  
 
 
On November 18, 2020, the Board heard a jurisdiction request for 2622 Greenwich Street. 
This permit revised a previous permit that was heard by the Planning Commission as a DR 
on March 15, 2018. This permit legalized additional excavation that was performed by the 
permit holder without benefit of a permit. The excavation undermined the foundations of 
the adjacent properties and resulted in the issuance of notices of violation by the 
Department of Building Inspection. The jurisdiction request was sought because the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 19, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
requestor did not file an appeal within the 15-day appeal period. The Board found that the 
City did not cause the requester to miss the appeal period and denied the jurisdiction 
request. The Department of Building Inspection did note that the enforcement case remains 
open and they are working with the parties to achieve a resolution.  
 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission met yesterday and they did adopt a recommendation 
for approval for landmark designation of the Japanese YWCA Issei Women's Building at 1830 
Sutter Street for landmark designation. And they heard an informational presentation from 
staff regarding the Citywide Cultural Resources Survey update and were all very excited that 
this is gaining momentum and staff will be actually conducting surveys throughout the city.