8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you. I just want to note one thing as we got a couple questions about how long we 
are going to continue with our remote hearings. And obviously, thank you to Jonas and all 
those who put these together, we don't have a specific direction on when these will run or 
when we can get back to city hall for public hearings. So I imagine this is going to be or at 
least for the next couple months that we will be doing this, perhaps longer. We know that 
the format, and Jonas mentioned this at the beginning of the meeting, can at times be 
clunky and inefficient and we will continue to make changes to that so that it does evolve 
to become more user friendly especially to the public who are calling in. We will keep you 
updated you on that, but no definitive date on when we can resume hearings back at city 
hall. Thanks.   
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
This week at the Land Use Committee they considered the landmark designation for the 
Royal Baking Company building located at 4767 Mission Street. This ordinance was 
sponsored by Supervisor Safai. The HPC unanimously recommended for designation on 
May 6th of this year. The building is located in the Excelsior and will be the second Article 
10 landmark in the neighborhood. It is significant for its association with the history of the 
Italian American community of San Francisco and that community’s early 20th century 
suburban expansion into the Excelsior District. It is also significant for San Francisco’s 
important 20th century macaroni and bread making industries and its unique commercial 
facade, and mix of story book and art deco architectural styles. At the Land Use and 
Transportation Committee, there were no comments or questions from committee 
members. Supervisor Safai provided a brief overview of the property’s history and 
background on the designated building. The Committee then unanimously recommended 
the landmark designation to the Full Board. At the Full Board this week, the tentative map 
appeal for 3000 Larkin Street or 898 North Point Street was withdrawn. And Supervisor 
Mar's ordinance that would have extend the fee waiver for legalization of unauthorized 
dwelling units passed the first reading. That concludes my report.