10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, commissioners. I just wanted to bring one item to your attention in case 
you did not hear about it. The Mayor proposed an initiative ordinance that will be on the 
ballot on November 3rd that makes changes to our Neighborhood Commercial District 
Zoning Controls and Procedures. So it does a host of things, but three I wanted to note – 
one requires us to act within -- actually, it is targeted and approved or act on these items 
within 30 days when they are submitted to the City; it eliminates neighborhood 
notification for principally permitted uses in some corridors; and then it converts some 
uses from conditionally -- from conditional uses to principally permitted arts activities, 
social services and philanthropic facilities, general entertainment, movie theater, 
community facilities, restaurants, and limited restaurants. Because it is a ballot initiative, 
we can only provide factual information to you and the public on this, we will work with 
the city attorney to the extent we have a summary of the ordinance. We can submit it to 
you. We will pass along the full text as well. Thank you. That concludes my report. 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 18, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
This week the Land Use Committee was canceled so there is nothing on the agenda for us 
this week. At the Full Board this week, the re-authorization of the extension fee waiver for 
legalizing unauthorized dwelling units sponsored by Supervisors Mar and Mandelman 
passed its second read, and the conditional use appeal for 95 Nordhoff Street was 
continued one week. I was also going to mention the mayor's initiative that she introduced 
for the November ballot, but the Director beat me to it, and did a fairly good job of 
summarizing its main points. I am available for more questions on that if you like.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary:    
Commissioners, as stated, there is no report from the Board of Appeals. But the Historic 
Preservation Commission did resume its hearing schedule yesterday after a slight hiatus 
where they adopted a motion directing staff to draft the resolution supporting the 
Department's efforts regarding Racial and Social Equity similar to what you have already 
done, so that will be agendized on their July 1st hearing. They did adopt a letter supporting 
the Legacy Business Program that was sent to the Mayor, Carmen Chu, among other folks. 
They acted on the 22nd Street -- the 804 – 806 22nd Street project which you considered 
and made amendments to which required it to go back to the Historic Preservation 
Commission, and they approved it with conditions. And then they took -- they review and 
commented on the 550 O’Farrell Street Draft Environmental Impact Report which will be 
coming before you, I believe next week.