7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
AnMarie Rodgers: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. AnMarie Rodgers, Citywide Policy, here for Director Hillis 
who is out of the office this week. There were a couple of items that I wanted to share with 
you that the Department is engaged on and related to post COVID work. The first is that 
Director Hillis has told you about the role that he is playing in relation to the Mayor’s 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 16, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
Recovery Task Force. He is co-chairing an Economic Development policy working group 
with Ann Taupier from the Office of Economic Development and Workforce. And this group 
has been developing policy recommendations focused on housing production and small 
business recovery. I wanted to let you know that they are planning on presenting ideas to 
the Economic Recovery Task Force in early August. So that is something that we can all 
look forward to seeing the benefits of that work.  
 
And number two, I know that you are familiar with the City’s Shared Spaces program that 
Mayor Breed launched in May. I wanted to give you a little update on this one. This is the 
program that helps support neighborhood – particularly neighborhood businesses by 
providing additional public space for those business and community activities. This is the 
re-allocation of the public right of way – sidewalks, streets or part of streets in nearby 
public spaces, so that we can conduct neighborhood activities in a safe distance and with 
fresh air. You have probably seen restaurants pick up and other neighborhood activities 
that are occurring across the city. And at this point, we are very pleased to share that we 
have seen over 800 applications for these permits. Many city agencies are collaborating to 
make this program work to quickly adjust to the need. And also, I just want to let you know 
that Planning Department staff from both Current Planning and Citywide Policy are 
planning a key role on this work. Robin Abad of the Citywide Design Group is managing 
and coordinating the program for the city-at-large. And we also have Planning 
Department staff with the Office of Economic Workforce Development that are putting 
together an equity component for this program to ensure that there is full participation 
from people in all communities. So far, we have given some updates to the Small Business 
Commission and the Entertainment Commission. And if this Commission is interested, we 
could share more with you about these efforts in the future. That concludes my updates for 
you. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
 
This week, the Land Use Committee considered the legislative amendment associated with 
the Market-Octavia Area Plan, also called The Hub. Commissioners, you heard this item on 
May 21st and recommended approval with modifications. The Commission’s modification 
directed the Department and the Board to pursue a Nexus study to establish community 
facility fees. In response to the Commission’s action, the Mayor introduced substitute 
legislation on June 9th with the new community facilities fee. During the Land Use hearing, 
there were only two sentiments expressed during public comment. The first was in support 
of the plan as approved by the Commission and encouraging supervisors to move forward 
with the legislation. The other was a request to put the legislation on hold until further 
equity work is complete. After public comment, there was not significant discussion on the 
proposed plan by the committee members. Instead, the Committee continued the item for 
one week to July 20th. This week, the Rules Committee held a hearing on the Mayor’s 
November ballot initiative called Save our Small Businesses or SOS. The initiative would, 
among other things, relax controls on certain destination type uses or uses not impacted 
by online competition such as general entertainment, movie theatres and art activities. It 
would also remove 311 neighborhood notification for any principally permitted use. This 
controls would have to stay in place for 3 years after which time the Board could change 
them. The Board would be able to make the controls less restrictive within the 3-year time 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 16, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
period but not more restrictive. Supervisor Ronen had the most questions for staff who 
included representatives from the Mayor’s office, the Planning Department and OEWD. 
Supervisor Ronen stated her support for the proposed – for most of the items in the 
ordinance. The question why the changes were not being done through the legislation 
process as all the changes could be done legislatively. She also said that the Mayor worked 
at the Board – had the Mayor worked with the Board, they would have been able to 
finetune the legislations that it was more community focused. Public comment was fairly 
split. Some callers supported having this done legislatively or through an emergency 
ordinance. Others supported the initiative and expressed skepticism that the Board could 
actually get such a far-reaching change like these through. I would note that it is not clear 
if any of the changes in the initiative could be done through an emergency ordinance as 
those are usually reserved for more restrictive controls. As it is just post hearing, the Mayor 
complaints initiative on the ballot without Board approval. At the end of the hearing the 
Committee filed the item and did not take any further action. And then finally this week, 
the Board considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would allow the expansion of the 
central police station in the North Beach and that passed its first read. And that’s all I have 
for you today. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
There is no report from the Board of Appeals. The Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday remotely where they adopted a resolution centering preservation 
planning on Racial and Social Equity similar to what the Planning Commission had 
previously done. They also adopted a recommendation for approval for the Planning Code 
amendment on your agenda later today regarding continuation of certain non-conforming 
parking lots in the Mission Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District. Finally, they 
adopted the resolution supporting the nomination of 1315 Waller Street.