6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon Commissioner’s, Aaron Starr Department Staff. 
There were no Planning Department items at the Land Use Committee this week, but at 
the Full Board hearing, the Board considered several appeals, a CU and CEQA appeal for 
1846 Grove Street and the various CEQA appeals for the MTA’s slow Streets program. 
• 200746 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review 
1846 Grove Street. Special Order, 3:00 PM, Items 48-51 
 
First up was the CU and CEQA appeal for 1846 Grove Street. Commissioners, if you recall 
this project proposed the construction of four single-family homes on an interior flag lot. 
The buildings were designed in such a way as to minimize impact on the adjacent 
neighbors and featured green roofs. After several continuances for this item, many of 
which were related to the shelter in place orders, this Commission considered the project 
on April 9 and voted unanimously to approve it.  
 
The appellant group was made up of adjacent neighbors. The CEQA appeal was over the 
type of classification used. The appellant claimed that a class three exemption was not 
allowed since that only applied to 6 units in a single building and this project included four 
units in four separate buildings on one lot. However, the CEQA determination was not in 
fact based on a class three exemption. It was based on what is called a Commonsense 
Exemption. Basically, because CEQA Categorically exempts 6 units projects on a single lot, 
a 4-unit project would also not have significant environmental impacts and should receive 
a categorical exemption, which seems like common sense.  
 
With the CU appeal, they were primarily concerned with fire safety. Access to the site is 
limited to one narrow passageway on Fulton Street, and the appellants contend that the 
number of people living in those units could not safely leave the area in an emergency, 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 1, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
such as a fire. However, the Fire and Building Departments both confirmed prior to going 
before the Planning Commission that the access was adequate from a life a safety-
standpoint, and that determination had not changed since. This commission also added a 
condition to the CU that said if the design changed for any reason due to fire safety issues, 
the project needed to come back to the Planning Commission for review. The appellants 
brought their own fire safety expert, who works on the peninsula for cities like Mountain 
View, to counter the argument. 
 
During public comment there were over twice as many people calling in support of the 
project as there were in support of the appeal. Those in support of the appeal mainly 
stayed to the fire safety concerns, but excessive density, quality of life impacts and bad 
blood between the community and developer also came up. 
 
The people calling in support of the project made the point that this was middle class 
housing, that we should be looking for creative ways like this to add housing to our 
established neighborhoods, and that small housing projects like this take too long to go 
through the process adding to the overall cost of housing. They also made the point that as 
far as fire safety goes, building homes in San Francisco poses a significantly smaller fire risk 
than continuing to push development into our rural areas and forest where we are 
currently seeing devastating wildfires. That sprawl is also exacerbating climate change, 
which increases the frequency and intensity of those fires.  
 
The arguments in favor of the project did not seem to sway Supervisor Preston, who made 
a motion to deny the CEQA appeal but to modify the CU to only allow two units. At one 
point he attempted to have planning staff explain and defend the building’s occupancy 
classification. After we made it clear that we are not experts in this field and can’t be relied 
upon to make such statements, they then sought to get testimony from DBI and/or Fire. 
While representatives from both departments were invited to the hearing, none attended.  
There was also a Fire expert on the project sponsors side, a retired SF fire inspector; 
however, the Supervisor Preston felt it was unnecessary to have the retired fire inspector 
clarify the occupancy code issue because he had a financial stake in the project.  
 
Supervisor Preston ultimately motioned to overturn the CU because he disagreed with the 
Department of Building Inspection and the Fire Department’s occupancy classification. The 
motion passed unanimously with Supervisor Peskin quickly seconding the motion.  
 
I will note that the occupancy classification is not under the purview of this commission or 
the Planning Department. I will also note that while the project sponsor cannot now build 
four dwelling units on the site, they can build two dwelling units and two Accessory 
Dwelling Units as of right. Effectively allowing the exact same project, just with a different 
ownership structure.  
 
• 200903 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed MTA’s Transportation Recovery Plan: COVID-19 Emergency Temporary 
Transit Lanes and Bikeways Project. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 60-63 
• 200987 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Statutory Exemption From 
Environmental Review - Proposed MTA’s Panhandle Social Distancing and Safety 
Project. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 64-67 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 1, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
• 201000 Hearing - Appeal of Statutory Exemption From Environmental Review - MTA 
Department Operations Center (DOC) COVID-19 Emergency Temporary Street Changes 
Program. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 68-71 
• 201024 Hearing - Appeal of Statutory and Categorical Exemption From Environmental 
Review - MTA Slow Streets, Phase 3. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 72-75 
 
And finally, the Board considered four CEQA appeals all having to do with COVID 
Emergency related MTA projects, such as slow streets. The items were all called together 
under one hearing, which lasted about two hours. About an hour of that was taken up by 
appellant and staff presentations. The issues were similar to the other MTA CEQA appeals 
recently considered by the Board.  In the end the Board unanimously rejected all of the 
CEQA appeals. This now allows for other slow street and COVID emergency related projects 
to move forward. And MTA has been very busy since Wednesday morning implementing 
those projects.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered two items that may be of interest 
to the Commission. 50 Steuart Street, an appeal of a building permit to allow vertical and 
front horizontal addition and a second dwelling unit. The Planning Commission heard 
three DRs on this property over the course of multiple hearings in 2019. The Planning 
Commission ultimately approved the project with the condition that the sponsor remove a 
proposed ADU. At the first hearing of this matter, Commission asked the sponsor to 
consider adding an ADU but ultimately, the Commission decided that the ADU was not 
necessary. Three appeals were filed on the permit by the original 3 DR requestors. The 
appellants raised issues with the project’s compliance with the front set back requirement, 
Section 317 Demolition Calculations and Residential Design Guidelines.  During the course 
of the appeal process, it was found that the demolition calculations for the permit 
contained minor discrepancies. However, the project nonetheless, complied with Section 
317 and was not considered a demolition. The Board of Appeals unanimously granted the 
appeal to adopt the updated demolition calculations and approved the project.  
 
3601 Lawton Street, and appeal of the Planning Commission’s Home SF authorization from 
July 30th, 2020, to allow a 5-story mixed-use building with 41 dwelling units. The appellant 
argued that the site was toxic and the Environmental Review was inadequate. The project 
received a commonsense exemption and is subject to the Maher Ordinance. While the 
appellant raised concerns about the environmental review, they did not file an appeal on 
the CEQA determination in a timely manner.  
 
The appellant previously appealed the Home SF authorization for 3945 Judah Street with 
similar arguments. At that hearing, which was earlier this year, the appellant was advised 
on the appeal process and timelines for appeals of CEQA determinations. The Board 
unanimously denied the appeal and approved the Home SF authorization.