10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. I just wanted to give you a quick budget update for the 
Department. We are due to submit our nine-month report to the controller's office 
tomorrow, and we're estimating a $6 million loss in fee revenue or, you know, we're not 
going to meet budget by $6 million for our own fee revenue. We're also awaiting direction 
from the Mayor's Office for general fund impacts. Our fee revenue is about $41 million per 
year, so we believe we're about $6 million under budget for the year. Mostly due to this 
health crisis and lack of applications now and estimated in the remainder of the year. So, 
we'll come back and talk to you more about that. We anticipate that we can bridge that 
gap by keeping positions vacant and reducing some of our non-personnel expenditures. 
But I just wanted to alert you of that as we submit our estimates to the controller's office. 
Thank you.   
 
Commissioner Moore:   
I'm sorry, Director Hillis. I was asking as to whether or not the additional cost for 
conducting these televised meetings in the form that we do incur extra costs, and do they 
have to be borne within your budget?   
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 16, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
   Page 6 of 11 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:   
Jonas, I don't know if you have any information on that. I mean, I think if there are, they're 
not significant. Definitely the fee revenue is going to be the driving factor in any changes 
to our budget.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The City already had contracted the MS Teams application, and we had existing contracts 
with the AT&T bridge conference line. And so there are some nominal fees associated with 
it. I believe less than $100 associated with going to the live event broadcast, but other than 
that, these remote hearings are not incurring additional significant costs.   
 
Commissioner Moore:   
Thank you for clarifying that.   
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. This week at 
the Land Use Committee, the first item was Supervisor Stefani’s ordinance that would 
modify the Geary Masonic Special Use District. The modification would 1) allow payment of 
an inclusionary housing fee instead of building the housing onsite; 2) remove minimum 
parking requirements; and 3) reduce the ground floor ceiling heights from 14 feet to 12 
feet. The Planning Commission heard this item on January 23rd of this year and 
recommended approval with modifications to earmark collected impact fees for District 2 
or the immediate vicinity. While this recommendation was not included in the ordinance, 
Supervisor Stefani indicated during the meeting that she was amenable to this change and 
was discussing the option with the City Attorney's Office. There was no public comment 
during the hearing, however, Supervisor Preston expressed concern that the option for 
inclusionary or housing fee goes against the original intent of the SUD. Supervisor Preston 
questioned what made this project different and felt this ordinance would set a bad 
precedent. In response, Supervisors Peskin and Safai said that they too had the same 
concern as Supervisor Preston. However, both supervisors acknowledged that this project 
had gone through numerous iterations and that the project is unique. Supervisor Stefani 
said that she also had initial concerns, but after sitting down with the developer to look at 
the numbers, she came to the conclusion that this was the only way to get housing on the 
site. In the end, the committee moved the item forward without recommendation to give 
Supervisor Preston additional opportunity to continue discuss this further with Supervisor 
Stefani and the developer.  
 
Next on the Land Use agenda was the planning code, zoning map, and general plan 
amendments and the development agreement for the Potrero Power Plant project. The 
Planning Commission heard this item on January 30th and recommended approval with 
modifications. The modifications included adding a 20% --inaudible-- requirement and 
other clarifying changes. At the Land Use hearing, Supervisor Walton gave an overview of 
the proposed changes and staff from OEWD and Planning also presented. There were two 
public commenters representing Local 2 and the San Francisco Housing Action Coalition. 
They spoke in support of the item. Chair Peskin then made the motion to amend the 
ordinance to include the Commission's proposed modifications, which passed. The Chair 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 16, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
   Page 7 of 11 
 
then recommended that this ordinance be moved to the Full Board as a committee report, 
and this motion also passed.  
 
Last on the Land Use agenda was the proposed zoning map and planning code 
amendments for the Bayview Industrial Triangle. One of the proposed ordinances would 
update the zoning within the Bayview Industrial Triangle area from M-1, M-2 and NC-3 to 
NCT-3 and PDR-1G. The other would prohibit cannabis retail within the Bayview Triangle 
area. Both items were heard at the Planning Commission on February 20th of this year. At 
that hearing, the Planning commission recommended both of the additional 
considerations on how -- they recommended both items with an additional consideration 
of how to accommodate the nearby school's request for expansion space. Planning 
Department staff has since been in contact with the school's administrators to identify 
other routes for achieving this desired expansion aside from zoning changes. There's no 
public comment on either item, and the committee members posed no significant 
questions or statements. Committee then recommended both items to the Full Board as a 
committee report. At the Full Board of the supervisors this week, the Planning Code 
Correction ordinance sponsored by the Planning Commission passed its second read. The 
Ocean Avenue ordinance that would amend control in the Ocean Avenue regarding lot 
mergers and usage that were permitted passed its first read. The appeal for 1531 Howard 
Street was continued until the shelter in place is lifted. And the Potrero Power Plant and 
Bayview Industrial Triangle ordinances all passed their first read with one note, that 
Supervisor Mandelman voted no on the restricting cannabis retail sales in the Bayview 
Industrial Triangle. That concludes my report, and I'm available for questions. Thank you. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals attempted to meet remotely yesterday for the first time. 
Unfortunately, due to some technical difficulties were not able to convene and had to 
cancel that meeting. They will be trying to resolve those issues and meet remotely next 
week.  
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday remotely via the MS Teams and 
AT&T conference bridge. They were able to act on several items under consent, approving 
some certificates of appropriateness. They also heard the Standard Environmental 
Requirements Code Amendments related to CEQA mitigation measures, and there was 
consensus that the Commissioners were supportive of the proposed code amendments. 
There was significant community opposition to having the matter considered during this 
emergency and in a remote hearing, and for that reason, the Commission chose to 
continue that matter to their next hearing of May 6th. They then heard and adopted 
recommendations for approval for three small businesses: City Nights at 715 Harrison 
Street, Korean Martial Arts at 414 Ocean Avenue, and the New Conservatory Theater at 25 
Van Ness Avenue. At the conclusion or adjournment of the regular hearing, the 
Architectural Review Committee of the Historic Preservation Commission convened 
remotely and considered the Carnegie Mission Branch library which is city landmark #234. 
They have a proposal to construct a 2-story addition and restore previously removed 
historic features at 300 Bartlett Street, and the Architectural Review Committee provided 
significant review and recommendations.  
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 16, 2020 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
   Page 8 of 11