8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Thank you for your comments Commissioner Tanner and 
for all of your work on the Commission to 1) Pass the resolution we did last summer to 
center our work on Racial and Social Equity in the ongoing work that has come as a result 
of that. As you said Commissioner Tanner, there’s a a long way to go but I think we are 
making good progress. I wanted to just highlight two projects that I had the opportunity 
to see this week with the Mayor and City staff. One, you may have read about in the 
Chronicle or attended virtually, the groundbreaking of the Potrero Power Station which 
you all were involved in approving and shaping. And our staff was certainly involved in it 
as well. It's great to see that project moving forward. The horizontal infrastructure work is 
moving forward as well as its preservation work on Station A. Ultimately it will be 2,600 
units of housing, 30% of which will be affordable, 1.6 million square feet of commercial 
space, seven acres of open space and much improved connections to the water. Thank you 
all for your work on that. I was also able to take a look at the Conservatory of Music, which 
the Mayor toured on Tuesday, which is in operation but they're phasing in the operation 
obviously because of the pandemic. But a wonderful project that was also the result of a 
DA approved and shaped by you all. It houses 420 students, there's 27 replacement units 
that are being occupied replacing the housing that was there and it is rent controlled 
housing as well as classroom space, studios and performance space. Both on the top of the 
building and at the corner of Hayes and Van Ness. So, great projects to see moving 
forward. And I just wanted to again thank you and the staff for all you've done to make 
those happen. Thanks. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon Commissioner’s Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs 
 
• 210284 Administrative, Public Works, and Transportation Codes - Shared Spaces. 
 
Sponsors: Mayor; Mandelman, Safai, Stefani and Haney 
 
 
This week the Land Use Committee had two meaty planning items before them. The first 
was the Mayor’s ordinance, co-sponsored by Supervisors Mandelman, Safai, Stefani, and 
Haney to make the Shared Spaces program permanent. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 27, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
 
Commissioners, you held an informational hearing on this item on April 22nd of this year 
and did not take an action.  
 
 
During the hearing staff gave a presentation similar to the one you received to the Land 
Use Committee. In general, the Supervisors seemed to support making the shared spaces 
program permanent, but they did have a lot of questions about the program including 
disability access, the privatization of public space, and concerns over how inclusive the 
public outreach process had been to date. 
 
 
There were over 100 people who called into give public comment. Most seemed to 
somewhat support the program, but also wanted more time to review the proposed 
ordinance and provide input. Several small business owners also called in asking the 
Committee to quickly approve the program to provide them more certainty. At the end of 
the hearing, which lasted until 7 PM, the item was continued to June 7th.  
 
• 210285 Planning, Business and Tax Regulations, Police Codes - Small Business Recovery 
Act. Sponsor: Mayor Staff:  
 
 
Next the Committee considered the Mayor’s Small Business Recovery Ordinance. The 
Historic Preservation Commission heard this item on April 21 and the Planning 
Commission on April 22. Both commissions recommended approval. At the beginning of 
the hearing, Staff from OEWD gave a thorough presentation on the ordinances contents 
and the intentions behind the changes.  
 
 
There were 35 public comments on this item, with a little more than a 1/3 in support and 
the rest in opposition. Support tended to come from the small business community and 
advocates, while opposition centered concerns about an equitable process and outcomes, 
and unintended consequences. There was also a strong desire to exempt the Mission from 
the legislation.  
 
 
At the end of public comment with the clock nearing 9:00 PM, Supervisor Melgar indicated 
that Supervisor Peskin had some amendments that he’d like to make, and noting the late 
hour suggested that the ordinance be duplicated, and the amendments made to that file.  
 
 
Supervisor Peskin’s amendments would substantially weaken the expansion of 30-day 
permit processing by retaining 311 noticing requirements. It also removes all use 
definition consolidation, except for the deletion of Cat Boarding and Instructional Service. 
His amendments do retain the provisions that support entertainment uses.  
 
 
The duplicated file was amended, and a vote was taken to continue the items June 14.  
 
 
The hearing ended at about 9:30, giving us all time to catch up on the latest episode of 
Mare of Easttown, and then go to bed.   
 
 
Full Board 
 
• 210287 Planning Code - Temporary Closure of Liquor Stores in Polk Street Neighborhood 
Commercial District. Sponsor: Peskin. PASSED Second Read 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 27, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9