8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
There is no report from the Board of Supervisors or the Board of Appeals. And so, I’m a little 
caught off guard here. I did not have the results. I did not have the results from yesterday's 
Historic Preservation Commission hearing open. So, if you would bear with me for one 
second. Let me open that document. I know it's only been a day but I have already forgotten 
what we have discussed yesterday. 400 California Street was approved with their second 
option for the entry way solution for that Certificate of Appropriateness. That project will 
actually be coming to you, the Planning Commission. And the Historic Preservation 
Commission actually indicated a strong recommendation for an on-site interpretive 
program and they were going to make it a condition of their approval. But staff 
appropriately suggested that, that might be better added to a condition of your approval 
when that matter comes to you. So, when it does, please remember that the Historic 
Preservation Commission strongly recommended an on-site interpretive program to be 
installed as part of that project. They also took or considered the preservation alternatives 
for the Portsmouth Square improvement project, and then they approved a Certificate of 
Appropriateness at 940 Battery Street. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
Jonas, would you be so kind to briefly tell us what 400 California Street is. I cannot look at 
any map right now. I have walked down California Street a lot, but I do not know which 
building that is.  
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
It's a historic significant building and they're redoing the entry. I don't recall too many more 
specifics related to it but it’s a beautiful building.  
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
Thanks. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Again, it will be coming to you so you’ll see it.