9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon Commissioners. First of all, congratulations. Smooth election restored by 
faith and democracy. I just wanted to give you -- I emailed out a letter earlier today from 
Mayor Breed and Supervisors Ronen, Mar and Mandelman that was sent to ABAG and MTC 
regarding Plan Bay Area 2050 which as you know is the long range regional plan and it 
focuses on Housing, Environment, Transportation, and the Economy. The plan allocates 
growth of households and jobs in the region to counties and cities and it is part of the 
methodology that we use to allocate -- to make the RHNA allocation.  It's ultimately 
approved by MTC and ABAG which will happen later this year, but the draft of the plan, that 
was released in December (an original, an earlier draft had been released in the summer) 
this is the final draft, gave us some concerns and concerns to the Mayor and the Supervisors. 
And ultimately shifting a growth into San Francisco is about a 53% increase in allocation 
from new households to San Francisco. So, from about 139,000 to 213,000 households over 
the plan period, which is to 2050 and we're not the only city being affected. There are 
definitely others that are getting increases but we are probably the most significant. I think 
one of the bigger issues we had is where the growth is being allocated from and where it's 
being allocated to in San Francisco. So that ABAG and MTC divide the city into quadrants. 
So, again most of the increases coming in from the Southeast section of the city which as 
you know have seen a lot of growth and has gentrification and displacement, pressures, 
housing many of our communities of color and vulnerable population. So, that gave us 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
concern and that a lot of the growth is being shifted out of more higher resource jobs which 
communities along the peninsula. So, you'll see kind of those issues being outlined in the 
article. And one of the principals I think of Plan Bay Area was to further better housing and 
minimize displacements, so again, we have concerns about this shift.  ABAG taking this up 
tomorrow and voting on the preferred alternative for their EIR to study this, and then MTC 
takes it up next week, then ultimately adopted later this year after the EIR is certified. So, I 
just wanted to bring that to your attention because it's moving kind of fast.  
 
And then second item, the MOU for UCSF that you heard in a couple of commission meetings 
ago was approved by a Committee of the Board of Regents for UC. It's on their calendar for 
today, I think, for the full Regents. There have been some changes made to it and I think 
aligns with some of the concerns you have, so there's been shifts in the commitment to 
Affordable Housing to various AMIs. So before, you'll remember 50% of the new housing -- 
or 50% of -- that 40% affordable housing was designated AMI levels below 90% and the 
other 50% below 120%.  Those have been revised to have 50% below 80% AMI, 25% 
between 80% and 125% between 100% and 120%. So, we've seen some improvements to 
the Affordable Housing in targeting lower AMIs. So, I just wanted to give you that. Thank 
you.  
 
Commissioner Moore:   
Director Hillis, the letter you sent came in relatively recently and I only glanced at it, but it 
somewhat took my breath away. I have to [inaudible]. It seems as if there are people pulling 
strings that do not seem to reflect on reality. You very politely described what's happening 
but who's pulling the strings here? Is San Francisco not properly represented with these two 
agencies? It seems as if there's somewhere up there of governing on the top down rather 
than deal with the realities of a city that is severely impacted not just by COVID but by goals 
expectations which is limited land resources and a high degree of vulnerable communities 
are very very difficult to handle.  We are building large amounts of housing. It seems to me 
that we are leading the region. And I'm just trying to politely ask that I get a little bit more 
background of what is -- where and why this is done useful.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And I think you're exactly right. We're trying to understand that and tell -- I mean this is the 
latest draft which is considered the final draft that came out just before the holidays in 
December, or before the holidays in December. So, we're trying to understand how this shift 
was made and I think there's a couple of things going on. They've got a model that they use 
to model future growth and their strategies that are put into the model in land use 
assumptions that are made. So, it's been a little difficult for us to get answers to exactly how 
this happened. I mean I think it was a combination of shifting growth to meet greenhouse 
gas emissions. Closer to cities that have significant amounts of transit. Some of this seems 
to be due to a mistake made about how they accounted for our pipeline projects. There are 
some assumptions we're seeing now though about redevelopment of multifamily housing 
sites in almost a preference for that over redeveloping single-family home site. So, we're 
trying to understand that as well and understand why this shift happened so we can better 
articulate what our technical reasons why we don't think that should happen and the policy 
reason behind it. So, we will be articulating that at ABAG this evening and in MTC but we 
will also be meeting with staff to try to exactly understand that. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
Commissioner Moore:   
So, you will personally be representing us and -- 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I am a representative of ABAG for the Mayor. Supervisor Mar and Mandelman are on the 
ABAG as well. And Supervisor Ronen is on the MTC. [Inaudible] who's the Mayor's 
representative is also on the MTC. 
 
Commissioner Moore:   
So, we have an excellent representation to already push back and amend letters appropriate 
to changes that have occurred and were [Inaudible] 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes. And certainly, these are not large commissions. So, we can't control what happens 
necessarily at the Commission, but I think we've got some good policy rationale why we 
don't think this shift is appropriate. 
 
Commissioner Moore:   
Thank you so much for explaining that. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
You're welcome. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There is no report from the Board of Supervisors or the Board of Appeals. However, the 
Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday, where they heard the proposed 
Department Budget and Work Program, which you will be hearing next. As well as initiating 
or adopted a resolution recommending initiation of landmarking the Casa Sanchez Building 
at 2778 24th Street and the Mission Cultural Center at 2868 Mission Street.