7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. One, Commissioner Tanner, I just would have reiterated 
what Jonas said, we’re hearing good and bad so hopefully we can incorporate a lot of that – 
the good things that are coming out of remote hearings when we get back to City Hall. I just 
wanted to make mention one other thing, a few dozen or so Planning Directors around the 
country, including myself, recently signed onto a statement which acknowledges the 
mistakes of the past recognizing the historic Planning and Land Use policies have had 
negative implications contributed to systematic racism and impacted quality of 
neighborhoods and communities of color. The statement acknowledges this, but it also 
wanted to make a commitment on behalf of Planning Departments around the country to 
make change and it is fairly specific in some of the areas that we wanted to make change to 
create a more equitable future. The effort was led and staffed by our former director, John 
Rahaim, and has a lot of similarities to the resolution you passed last year but the notion 
being that we could increase the impact of this work.  And all of our work if we act 
collectively. So, originally 19 City Planning Directors signed on to this statement. And I think 
that number is growing. It's being hosted out of the Philadelphia Planning Department on 
their website, but they -- and all of us have invited other Planning Directors of cities, towns, 
regions, etc. to sign on to it. So I'll send you a link with some of the specifics and a link to the 
Philadelphia webpage where the statement is housed. And just want to thank Director 
Rahaim as well as the other fellow directors who participated in creating the statement and 
also signed onto it, so that's all I have. Thank you. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use  
• 210600 Planning Code - Small Business Zoning Controls in Chinatown and North Beach 
and on Polk Street. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
 
This week at Land Use, the Committee took up Supervisor Peskin’s zoning amendments for 
Chinatown, North Beach and Polk Street NC Districts. I believe last week I mentioned it was 
forwarded to the full board. I was mistaken, as it was continued because additional 
amendment were added last week, and ordinance need to sit for a week before it could be 
acted upon. This week, with little discussion, the committee did forward it to the Full Board 
with a positive recommendation.  
 
 
Full Board 
• 210565 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - “The Making of a Fresco Showing the 
Building of a City” - San Francisco Art Institute - 800 Chestnut Street. Sponsor: Peskin. 
Staff: LaValley. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 200519 Planning Code - Geary-Masonic Special Use District. Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: V. 
Flores. Passed First Read 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
 
• 210734 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 396-398 12th Street (San Francisco 
Eagle Bar). Sponsors: Haney; Mandelman and Ronen. Staff: Westhoff. Passed First Read 
• 210901 Hearing - Appeal of Final Mitigated Negative Declaration - Proposed 1525 Pine 
Street Project. Staff: Li. Special Order 3:00 PM. Continued to October 19 
 
• 210919 Hearing - Appeal of Final Environmental Impact Report Certification - Proposed 
469 Stevenson Street Project Staff: Range. Special Order 3:00 PM. Continued to October 
26 
 
• 210927 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 35 Ventura Avenue Project. Staff: Taylor. Continued to October 26 
 
• 210923 Hearing - Appeal of Final Mitigated Negative Declaration - Proposed 530 
Sansome Street Project. Staff: Callagy.  
 
 
The Board did take up the Appeal of Final Mitigated Negative Declaration for the project at 
530 Sansome. The project would demolish the existing fire station and construct a 218-foot-
tall building and a four-story replacement fire station. The proposal had two different 
program proposals one would be a hotel and the other would be residential.  
 
 
On July 29, 2021, this commission held a public hearing on the merits of the appeal for the 
Preliminary MND, and ultimately affirmed the department’s decision to adopt a mitigated 
negative declaration. 
  
 
After the Final MND was published, Ryan Patterson on behalf of the appellant, 447 Partners, 
LLC, filed an appeal of the FMND on August 30, 2021. 
 
 
The appeal letter from the appellant had three main issues. 1) That the Planning Department 
Did Not Provide Adequate Notice of the Availability of the MND 2) that The Project 
Description is Not Accurate, Stable, or Finite, and 3) that The Project Will Have a Significant 
Effect 447 Battery a building located on the same block which is a historic resource. 
 
 
After the appellants presentation there were no members of the public who called in to 
support the appeal. Planning then responded to the appellants issues, followed by the 
project sponsor’s presentation. After that there were two callers in support of the project. 
Supervisor Peskin then commented on the merits of the CEQA appeal and went point by 
point to explain why he thought that the appeal was a meritless and the arguments made 
by the appellant were specious. He then made a motion to deny the appeal, this was 
seconded by Supervisor Mandelman. The motion carried unanimously. 
  
• 210858 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 450-474 O’Farrell 
Street and 532 Jones Street. Staff: Grob.  
 
 
Lastly the Board finally took up the appeal for 450 O’Farrell Street at the very end of the 
agenda, but thankfully before general public comment. Because this appeal was heard last 
week, there public comment or presentations by the involved parties.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 10 
 
 
Supervisor Haney made opening remarks and spoke about the concerns over the project 
changing from housing units to group housing, that the tenderloin is already well served by 
group housing units and what they desire is more family housing. He also said that 
disapproving the group housing project would not impact the developer’s ability to move 
forward with the originally approved housing project.  
 
 
Supervisor Peskin also gave similar if not longer remarks, giving a very nuanced and 
thorough perspective on the situation. Supervisor Walton said that the recent spate of 
proposed Group Housing project was anti-housing, and anti-community, and Supervisor 
Ronen noted a growing trend of entitled projects that are being significantly changed after 
the fact, with very little process or consequence. The Board did ultimately vote 11-0 to 
overturn the Planning Commission’s decision and deny the project. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
 
Yes, I do have a question to Mr. Starr regarding the 450 O'Farrell on the comments of the 
supervisors. Did they mention anything about group housing clarification or what they 
intend to result in this definition? 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
They did -- thank you, Commissioner. They did speak about the Zoning Administrator's 
interpretation and how they think it's being abused, and I think one of them, maybe Ronen, 
mentioned that there needed to be some sort of legislative fix for the problem. So, we will 
look forward to that. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you. I'll see it, I guess, then. 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Yes. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday, and similarly, as you just did, also 
adopted a resolution to extend their remote hearings. They also considered a Certificate of 
Appropriateness for a rear horizontal addition and front reconstruction to one of the Painted 
Ladies at 714 Steiner Street. At the front, the garage door was going to be removed to allow 
for habitable space to occupy or replace the garage area and some reconstruction to the 
entry stairs. And after they approved the Certificate of Appropriateness, and the Zoning 
Administrator approved or indicated his intent to grant the variance, they considered the 
Mills Act request for the same property. And staff provided an update to the Mills Act 
program of the Planning Department and did mention how the Department is looking to 
expand the Mills Act or at least the opportunities to take advantage of the Mills Act for those 
that may be on the lower economic spectrum as opposed to what has been traditionally 
done by members who can afford properties to take advantage of the Mills Act. Finally, they 
adopted a recommendation for approval to designate the Casa Sanchez building at 2778 
24th Street as a landmark. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 10