7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
• 210600 Planning Code - Small Business Zoning Controls in Chinatown and North Beach 
and on Polk Street. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 30, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
 
At this week’s land use hearing, the committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance 
that would amend the zoning controls in North Beach, Chinatown, and Polk Street. If you 
recall this ordinance was heard last week and continued because substantive amendments 
were made to the ordinance. This week there was one public comment from Linda Chapman 
who had concerns regarding the lot merger allowance on Polk Street. The item as then 
recommended to the Full Board. 
 
• 200519 Planning Code - Geary-Masonic Special Use District. Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: V. 
Flores.  
 
 
Next, the Committee heard Supervisor Stefani’s Ordinance that amends the Geary Masonic 
SUD. The amendment would require that the housing fee for this SUD be used within one-
quarter mile of the boundaries of the SUD, or anywhere in San Francisco if not allocated 
within two years of payment. 
 
 
The Planning Commission waived their opportunity to hear this item because it was 
incorporating a recommendation you all made in January of 2020. The recommendation 
was “Revise the Ordinance to earmark collected impact fees for District 2 or the immediate 
vicinity.” 
 
During the hearing, Supervisor Stefani requested two amendments: 
o 
to expand the radius from .25 to 1.5 miles to include more of District 2; and 
o 
to increase the allocation timeframe from two years to five years. 
 
 
Chair Melgar commended Supervisor Stefani on these efforts, especially given the unique 
site. There were no public comments. Supervisor Preston then made a motion for the two 
amendments described above, plus some additional clerical amendments. These passed 
unanimously. They then voted to forward the item to the Full Board with a positive 
recommendation.  
 
• 210734 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 396-398 12th Street (San Francisco 
Eagle Bar). Sponsors: Haney; Mandelman and Ronen. Staff: Westhoff. 
 
 
The Land Use Committee also considered the landmark designation of the SF Eagle Bar at 
396 12th Street. The Eagle is significant for its association with South of Market’s LGBTQ 
community as San Francisco’s longest running Leather bar. When designated the Eagle will 
be the 7th City landmark associated with LGBTQ history. The HPC voted unanimously in 
support of recommendation on 5/19/21. The Committee voted to recommend the 
designation to the Full Board. 
 
• 210844 Hearing - Short Term Rental and Intermediate Length Occupancy Rental 
Registration and Enforcement. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Teague, D. Sanchez. Item 5 
 
 
Lastly, the Committee held a hearing on short-term rental and intermediate length 
occupancy rental registration.  This hearing was called by Supervisor Peskin. 
 
 
At the hearing Zoning Administrator Corey Teague reported on the current state of the 
intermediate length occupancy program, noting that the lack of applications received has 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 30, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
made the reporting on any data impossible.  The Rent Board also reported on their role on 
implementing the intermediate length occupancy program. 
  
 
Then, Diego Sanchez, who manages the STR Team, provided a report on the STR program, 
its application and enforcement activities, and recent community responses.  Supervisor 
Peskin had questions about the total number of applications filed and the number of 
approvals, denials, and withdrawals.  Other questions concerned the staffing levels for the 
program, the work completed to date, and the regulations concerning hosting with a 
pending application. Supervisor Peskin also had questions on the total penalties collected 
from enforcement and noted a discrepancy between what was reported in 2018 and the 
current report.   Staff committed to providing an explanation of the discrepancy and will 
meet with his staff to resolve this issue. 
  
 
Public comment largely focused on the implementation of the ILO program, noting several 
community concerns on how intermediate length occupancies take residential uses off the 
market for permanent residents. 
  
 
Because of the outstanding questions with the ILO and OSTR programs, Supervisor Peskin 
made a motion to continue the hearing to the call of the chair. This motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
Full Board 
• 210423 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Ingleside Terraces Sundial and Sundial 
Park. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: McMillen. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210565 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - “The Making of a Fresco Showing the 
Building of a City” - San Francisco Art Institute - 800 Chestnut Street. Sponsor: Peskin. 
Staff: LaValley. Passed First Read 
 
• 210709 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 575 Vermont 
Street. Staff: Christensen. Continued to October 19 at the request of both the appellant 
and project sponsor. 
 
• 210858 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 450-474 O’Farrell 
Street and 532 Jones Street. Staff: Grob.  
 
 
The Board did hear the CU appeal for 450 O’Farrell, a project this commission is very familiar 
with. A new CU was required for this project because the applicants revised the project to, 
among other things, change the project from 176 dwelling units to 316 Group Housing 
Units.  The Planning Commission approved the CU for the revised project on June 24 of this 
year with a vote of 4-2.  
 
 
In approving the Revised Project, the Commission included conditions that instructed the 
project sponsor to provide more, large group housing bedrooms by removing proposed 
ground floor retail space and replace it with group housing rooms, and by explore group 
housing rooms at the basement level. The Commission also added a condition to increase 
the bicycle parking up to 200 Class 1 bicycle parking spaces from the required 136 Class 1 
spaces, and to maximize the balconies on all the street frontages except O’Farrell.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 30, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
 
The project was appealed by Tenderloin Housing Clinic and the Pacific Bay Inn. The 
appellants raised three main issues in their appear: 1) Lack of due consideration, disclosure 
or analysis of the health, safety and welfare of the Tenderloin community and the adjacent 
Pacific Bay Inn; 2) The project is not compatible with the Tenderloin community, which is 
already oversaturated with market-rate group housing; and 3) Lack of community outreach 
and dialogue.  
 
 
During the hearing, public comment was about 60-40 in favor of the appeal, with many of 
the callers for the appeal citing the need for more family housing in the Tenderloin, a 
neighborhood dominated by SRO and group housing buildings. Those that spoke in favor of 
the project citied the need for a new church facility so that the church could fulfill its mission, 
or the need for more housing overall.  
 
 
Unlike most CU appeals, there were a lot of questions from the Supervisor’s for staff 
throughout the hearing. Most of the questions focused on the “grandparenting” of the 
project’s inclusionary housing requirement at 13% rather than the 20% currently required. 
They also questioned the ZA’s interpretation of the definition of group housing and other 
intricacies of the Code. Planner Carly Grob adroitly handled the barrage of questions. Overall, 
the supervisor’s seemed skeptical of the project now that it had been revised to group 
housing, and of the financial necessity cited by the applicants.  
 
 
However, we will have to wait for the outcome of this project, as once public comment was 
done Supervisor Haney then made a motion to continue the appeal for one week. This 
motion passed unanimously.  
 
 
Lastly, Supervisor Mandelman recently introduced an ordinance to again amend Planning 
Code Section 190 to extend the time that existing MCDs can convert from MCDs to Cannabis 
Retail. The date would be extended for one year from January 1, 2022 to January 1, 2023. A 
similar amendment was also done last year. The extension is necessary because of the time 
it has taken to process the Cannabis Retail equity applicants, which were given priority over 
existing MCDs. Staff does not plan on taking this item to you for a hearing unless I hear 
differently from you today.