8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
• 210807 Planning Code - Repealing Article 12 Regarding Oil and Gas Facilities. Sponsor: 
Chan. Staff: Starr.  
At last week’s Land Use hearing, Supervisor Chans ordinance that removed Article 12 from 
the Planning Code was finally sent out of Committee with a positive recommendation. 
 
Full Board 
• 210808 Planning Code - Requirements for Laundromats and On-site Laundry Services. 
Sponsors: Peskin; Chan, Preston, Ronen, Mandelman, Haney, Walton and Mar . Staff: V. 
Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210868 Planning Code - Inclusionary Housing Program Updates. Sponsors: Ronen; Chan. 
Staff: Grob. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210927 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 35 Ventura Avenue Project. Staff: Gibson. Appeal Withdrawn 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 16 
 
Land Use Committee 
• 210452 Planning Code - Exemption from Neighborhood Notification and Review 
Requirements for Grandfathered Medical Cannabis Dispensaries Converting to Cannabis 
Retail. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Christensen. 
 
 
At this week’s Land Use Committee hearing, the Committee considered an ordinance, 
sponsored by the Mayor that would remove the 311-notification requirement for the 
conversion of existing MCDs to Cannabis Retail. These uses have been operating as a 
Cannabis Retail for about four years now, and there have been no complaints filed to the 
office of cannabis on any of them. Commissioners, you heard this item on July 15 of this year 
and recommended approval. There was no public comment, and only a few questions from 
the committee members regarding how complaints or issues can be resolved through the 
office of cannabis. The Committee the voted to recommend the item to the Full Board.  
 
• 210810 Planning Code - Business Signs on Awnings and Marquees. Sponsors: Stefani; 
Chan. Staff: Merlone.  
 
 
Next the committee considered Supervisor Stefani’s ordinance that would allow for both a 
projecting sign and a sign on the awning in our commercial corridors. Commissioners you 
heard this item on October 14 of this year and recommended approval. There were about 
half dozen commentors, most seemed supportive of the proposed change. In introducing 
the item, Supervisor Stefani emphasized why a grandparenting provision would not be 
appropriate for dealing with this issue, if you recall that idea was discussed during the 
Planning Commission hearing. During the Committee hearing Supervisor Peskin asked 
questions about where this change applied, and how it interacted with special sign districts. 
Supervisor Melgar then made a motion to send this item to the Full Board with a positive 
recommendation, which the committee then passed unanimously.  
 
• 211021 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 447 Battery Street (aka Jones-
Thierbach Coffee Company Building. Sponsor: Historic Preservation Commission. Staff: 
LaValley.  
 
 
Finally, the Committee considered the landmark designation of 447 Battery Street, 
sponsored by Supervisor Peskin.  
 
 
After receiving a Resolution initiating designation from the BOS, the HPC reviewed this 
designation on August 4 of this year and recommended approval. The HPC found that 447 
Battery Street, constructed in 1907, was culturally and historically significant for association 
with the San Francisco coffee industry, a significant commercial sector in San Francisco 
during the second half of the nineteenth century and the first decades of the twentieth 
century. It is also associated with reconstruction of downtown San Francisco following the 
1906 earthquake and fires. The HPC also found that the building was not architecturally 
significant and recommended that the “three-story height and roughly rectangular 
footprint” be removed from the list of character-defining features. 
 
 
Staff was anticipating that the item would be continued, but instead Supervisor Peskin 
moved to table the item, which essentially stops the legislation from moving forward. No 
reason was given for tabling it.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 16 
 
Full Board 
• 210807 Planning Code - Repealing Article 12 Regarding Oil and Gas Facilities. Sponsor: 
Chan. Staff: Starr. Passed First Read 
 
Goodbye Scott, we look forward to your return and next going away party. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
As stated, there is no report for the Board of Appeal. However, the Historic Preservation 
Commission did meet yesterday and they initiated landmark designation for the Takahashi 
Trading Company located at 200 Rhode Island Street. They also heard an informational 
presentation from staff related to the Citywide Survey and then they adopted an Earthquake 
Shack Theme Document related to the Citywide Historic Context Statement. In addition, 
commissioners, there seems to be some consensus from the Historic Preservation 
Commission to encourage the City to take on a new endeavor by placing QR codes or some 
other methods by which tourists and residents, alike, could complete self-guided tours of 
significant locations: basically stopping and putting their phone up via app or some other 
method I would imagine, don’t have to be an app, and getting a brief history on the location 
of what makes that site specific for landmarks and other historically significant locations. I 
agreed that that would be a great idea and we will begin to at least look at that.