6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon Commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. Reporting to 
live from the 15th floor of 49 South Van Ness. We are back in the office and I am back to 
wearing career khakis instead of sweatpants. 
 
Land Use  
 
210972 Hearing - Planning Department Reorganization. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Sider/Hillis.  
 
This week the Land Use Committee held a hearing on the Planning Department’s recent 
reorganization. The hearing was called by Supervisor Peskin who was concerned about 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 4, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
moving the ZA position into Current Planning. Director Hillis led the Department’s 
presentation, going over the departments overall structure, function, and funding. The 
Supervisor Peskin asked questions throughout his presentation. His questions mainly 
focused on the ZA position; however, toward the end he then focused more on our budget 
and existing vacant positions. There were only a couple of public commentors, most were 
neutral comments or comments supporting the Planning Department, with the except of 
one caller, who seemed to not be much of a fan of the Planning Department.  
 
At the end of the hearing, Supervisor Peskin moved to continue the hearing to the call of 
the chair in case the Committee wanted to revisit this issue in the future. His motion 
passed unanimously. 
 
210807 Planning Code - Repealing Article 12 Regarding Oil and Gas Facilities. Sponsor: 
Chan. Staff: Starr.  
 
Lastly, the Committee considered Supervisor Chan’s ordinance that would repeal Article 
12. If you recall this was heard last week, but the proposed amendments, which the 
Commission recommended, had not been drafted yet. This week, the Committee amended 
the ordinance to include the commission’s recommended modifications. That modification 
was to: 
• Amend the definition of Heavy Manufacturing 2 and 3 to exclude from the 
definition the production or refining of petroleum products associated with oil and 
gas exploration 
 
The Committee voted unanimously to approve the modifications. And then had to 
continue the item one week since the modifications were substantive.  
 
Full Board 
 
210497 Planning Code and Zoning Map - Delete Life Science and Medical Special Use 
District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Shaw. PASSED Second Read 
 
210699 Planning, Administrative Codes - Accessory Dwelling Units. Sponsors: Mandelman; 
Ronen, Preston and Melgar. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 
210808 Planning Code - Requirements for Laundromats and On-site Laundry Services. 
Sponsors: Peskin; Chan, Preston, Ronen, Mandelman, Haney, Walton and Mar . Staff: V. 
Flores. Passed First Read 
 
210868 Planning Code - Inclusionary Housing Program Updates. Sponsors: Ronen; Chan. 
Staff: Grob. Passed First Read 
 
210709 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 575 Vermont Street. 
Staff: Christensen. Appeal was withdrawn 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Linda Chapman – Commissioners’ position as decision makers 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 4, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. And after a brief hiatus to the 
Legacy Business applications, once again where they adopted recommendations for 
approval for Shears Beauty and Barbershop on Newhall Street, for Button Down on 
Sacramento Street, Dee Dee Boutique on Pacific Avenue, Teevan Company on Union 
Street, Harris' Restaurant on Van Ness Avenue, Blue Danube Coffee House on Clement 
Street, Biordi Art Imports on Columbus Avenue, VJ Grocery on Clay Street. And then took 
up the landmark designation for the Golden Gate Valley Carnegie Library on Green Street 
where they also adopted-- or excuse me they initiated landmarking that site, and adopted 
a recommendation for approval to landmark the Allegory of California Diego Rivera murals. 
 
 
8. 
2021-009977CRV – Remote Hearings – Consideration of action to allow teleconferenced 
meetings and adopting findings under California government code section 54953(e) to 
allow remote meetings during the COVID-19 emergency; continue remote meetings for 
the next 30 days; direct the Commission Secretary to schedule a similar resolution [motion] 
at a commission meeting within 30 days. 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Sue Hestor – Calendar to include public discussion 
 
Georgia Schuttish –Allow 3 minutes for public comments 
 
Linda Chapman – Challenges for calling in for public comments 
 
Stephanie – Resume in person meetings 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
RESOLUTION: 
21029