10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 1, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon Commissioners, again, just two items: one I sent an e-mail earlier today 
about a ribbon cutting that you can stream, it’s next Friday, or next Thursday actually at 5. 
It's the first installment of the Excelsior Street Scape Pilot Project which I think many of you 
have heard about from being a commissioner. I think Commissioner Tanner, you worked on 
when you were here in the Department. There's a temporary public space art installation 
that's being installed at Mission and Geneva that we partnered with Youth Art Exchange as 
a part of and comes out of our Excelsior Mission structure. So, take a look at that, and attend 
if you can. 
 
 I also wanted to let you know as we move closer to the yellow tier, many of our staff are 
receiving vaccines, we are working with the Permit Center staff and DBI staff to plan for 
expanded in-person services at the Permit Center in transitioning from, you know, the 
current process to over-the-counter to in-person services. So, we'll be updating you on that 
more in the coming weeks and that's all I have. Thanks. 
 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, Environmental Review 
Officer Hearing and Historic Preservation Commission 
 
 
Lisa Gibson, Environmental Review Officer: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners.  
 
 
I am Lisa Gibson, Environmental Review Officer. I’m here today to report on a decision I 
issued pertaining to an appeal of a prior environmental determination I made regarding the 
Recreation and Parks Department’s Observation Wheel. I’m presenting this to you because 
Chapter 31 of the Administrative Code requires that an oral report on this type of decision 
be presented to the Planning Commission at the next possible meeting after such decision. 
 
 
As you may be aware, the observation wheel is part of RPD’s Golden Gate Park 150th 
Anniversary Celebration project. The wheel is located in the Music Concourse, which is an 
Article 10 landmark and is located in the National Register and California Register Golden 
Gate Park Historic District. It was originally proposed to be in operation for one year and was 
recently proposed to be in operation for a total of five years. 
 
 
Beck in December of 2019, the Planning Department issued a Class 1 and 3 categorical 
exemption for the original project pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act. This 
finding was based on substantial evidence in the record that the project fit within classes of 
projects that the state legislature determined could not have a significant effect on the 
environment. Further, we found that no exceptions were triggered that would make the 
project ineligible for a categorical exemption. At that time, operation of the wheel was 
proposed for one year, although our determination was not dependent on the duration of 
operation. 
 
 
On February 9, 2021, the Department determined that the proposed four-year extension 
would not constitute a substantial modification to the project that requires reevaluation 
pursuant to Section 31.08(i) of Chapter 31 of the SF Administrative Code. There was no 
information in the record demonstrating that the originally approved project met the 
definition of a substantial modification as defined in the code.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 1, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
 
On February 19, 2021, Katherine Howard of the San Francisco Group of the Sierra Club, filed 
an appeal of the Planning Department’s no substantial modification determination to the 
ERO.   
 
 
I’ll note that this was the first time such an appeal has ever been filed. Appeals of this type 
are allowed pursuant to Admin Code Sect 31.08(j). As noted therein, such an appeal is not 
an appeal of a CEQA decision under that state law. In addition, such appeals shall not delay 
or suspend any permit approval or other discretionary approval authorizing the change in 
the project or suspend any construction activity. 
 
 
Returning to the subject of my report on this particular appeal, On March 11, 2021, I held a 
public hearing for the appeal that challenged the department’s no substantial modification 
determination for the observation wheel. The appeal primarily raised concerns related to 
the nighttime lighting of the wheel. The appellant argued that an additional four years of 
operation would have a significant impact on historic resources, biological resources, and 
other environmental topics.  
 
 
After carefully considering the appeal, on March 25th I issued a memorandum that upheld 
the Department’s determination that the revised project does not constitute a substantial 
modification and that there is no new information demonstrating that the originally 
approved project no longer qualifies for the exemption. 
 
 
The Department determined that the project met the Secretary of the Interior Standards for 
the Treatment of Historic Properties and determined that impacts related to historic 
resources would be less than significant. The project required a certificate of 
appropriateness application which was approved by the Historic Preservation Commission.  
 
 
Regarding biological resources, the Department reviewed biological assessments that were 
completed for past projects that share similar characteristics to the wheel. Based on 
substantial evidence, the department determined that the nighttime lighting of the wheel 
would have less than significant impacts on biological resources, including migratory and 
nesting birds. 
 
That concludes my report and I am happy to take any questions. Thank you.