5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 11 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon. Just a couple things I wanted to follow up on my report from last week 
regarding Plan Bay Area; I forwarded the letter that the Mayor and Supervisors sent in 
response to the most recent draft of Plan Bay Area, which MTC and ABAG issued in 
December. I think, if you take a look there's been media coverage on this as well. The letter 
recognizes that we will get significant allocation of the bay area's growth and we will 
continue to be a leader in the development of housing and affordable housing but raise 
concerns about the allocation and the most recent allocation which is about 70,000 units; in 
that shift coming primarily from more high resource job rich cities in San Mateo and Santa 
Clara. So ABAG and MTC both met over this past week since our last commission meeting 
and there was a good robust discussion about these concerns at both meetings. Ultimately 
the Commissions adopted the draft plan as a preferred alternative in the EIR and that's the 
process they'll go through now is CEQA review of the draft plan. Both Commissions also 
requested that an alternative be develop and then included in the EIR that addresses the 
concerns we laid out. So, I think it's an okay outcome from that. 
 
I also want to mention Prop H, which is, you know, we've talked about before, which was on 
the ballot that requires some permits be reviewed and acted on by the City in 30 days that 
includes our review. We've started implementation of Prop H and there's a web portal that 
small businesses and businesses that qualify for Prop H can apply for a permit and get that 
response in 30 days. Huge thanks to our staff that worked across agencies to put this 
together, in short timeframe, and get it up and running. So, thank you to them. Thanks, and 
that concludes my report. 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I just have a question about the RHNA allocation that you were speaking about. We still have 
the same amount of overall housing units; there seems to be some, maybe, shuffling that 
will get different affordability amount, is that correct? Different income levels might be 
allocated to us?  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Because of the shift from the summer draft of Plan Bay Area to the December draft are 
allocations over a 30-year increase for about 70,000 units and then that's a factor but not 
the only factor in the RHNA methodology, so allocating for RHNA. So, because of that shift 
we ended up getting 10,000 unit for household increase in RHNA as well and that's allocated 
kind of in the same portion as our prior allocation In RHNA between income level.  
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
A quick report today, only one item at the Land Use Committee this week pertain to Planning 
would be the initiation of the landmark designation for the Eagle Bar and that's sponsored 
by Supervisor Heaney and the Committee did forwarded that to the Board with positive 
recommendation. That's all I have for you today. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals met last night considered two items that may be of interest to the 
Commission. First, the Board held their election of officers. Commissioner Darryl Honda was 
elevated to President and Commissioner Eduardo Santacana was elevated to Vice-President.  
  
Second, the Board heard the appeal of a variance for 945-947 Minnesota Street. The 
Planning Commission considered a DR for this same project at a joint hearing with the ZA in 
October 2020. The Appellant raised concerns about the legality of the rear portion of the 
existing structure. The Department noted that portions of the structure are visible on aerial 
photos from 1938 and that a permit from 1962 (which didn’t include plans) appears to 
reference the structure at the rear. In considering all the evidence, the Department 
determined that the rear portion of the structure appears to be legal and has existed for 
more than 80 years without complaint. The Department also advised the project sponsor 
that any demolition of the non-complying structure at the rear beyond what was authorized 
by the variance may trigger the need for a new variance. The Board unanimously denied the 
appeal and approved the variance.