7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. One, Commissioner Tanner, I just would have reiterated 
what Jonas said, we’re hearing good and bad so hopefully we can incorporate a lot of that – 
the good things that are coming out of remote hearings when we get back to City Hall. I just 
wanted to make mention one other thing, a few dozen or so Planning Directors around the 
country, including myself, recently signed onto a statement which acknowledges the 
mistakes of the past recognizing the historic Planning and Land Use policies have had 
negative implications contributed to systematic racism and impacted quality of 
neighborhoods and communities of color. The statement acknowledges this, but it also 
wanted to make a commitment on behalf of Planning Departments around the country to 
make change and it is fairly specific in some of the areas that we wanted to make change to 
create a more equitable future. The effort was led and staffed by our former director, John 
Rahaim, and has a lot of similarities to the resolution you passed last year but the notion 
being that we could increase the impact of this work.  And all of our work if we act 
collectively. So, originally 19 City Planning Directors signed on to this statement. And I think 
that number is growing. It's being hosted out of the Philadelphia Planning Department on 
their website, but they -- and all of us have invited other Planning Directors of cities, towns, 
regions, etc. to sign on to it. So I'll send you a link with some of the specifics and a link to the 
Philadelphia webpage where the statement is housed. And just want to thank Director 
Rahaim as well as the other fellow directors who participated in creating the statement and 
also signed onto it, so that's all I have. Thank you. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use  
• 210600 Planning Code - Small Business Zoning Controls in Chinatown and North Beach 
and on Polk Street. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
 
This week at Land Use, the Committee took up Supervisor Peskin’s zoning amendments for 
Chinatown, North Beach and Polk Street NC Districts. I believe last week I mentioned it was 
forwarded to the full board. I was mistaken, as it was continued because additional 
amendment were added last week, and ordinance need to sit for a week before it could be 
acted upon. This week, with little discussion, the committee did forward it to the Full Board 
with a positive recommendation.  
 
 
Full Board 
• 210565 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - “The Making of a Fresco Showing the 
Building of a City” - San Francisco Art Institute - 800 Chestnut Street. Sponsor: Peskin. 
Staff: LaValley. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 200519 Planning Code - Geary-Masonic Special Use District. Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: V. 
Flores. Passed First Read 

San Francisco Planning Commission