7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon. One item I wanted to mention today, as you know the Department is 
currently working on major updates to the City's General Plan which include the updates 
to the Housing Element, the Transportation Element, Safety and Resilience Element and 
incorporating Environmental Justice Policies into the General Plan. These are ongoing and 
there's public engagement processes related to each of those. Though we do have over the 
course of the next two weeks I wanted to update you and the general public about some 
outreach activities that we have starting March 15th and going through the next two 
weeks. It's a series of virtual events and you can find details on our website at 
SFPlanning.org that are open to anyone who lives, works, and spends time in San 
Francisco. So, we'll have kind of broader topics on what the General Plan does and then get 
into details and have specific sections on those various elements as well as on Youth 
Engagement and our Racial and Social Equity Action Plan, our Recovery Plans as well. So, 
there is a series of events over the next two weeks. I encourage you all to take a look at it, 
too and attend where you would like to. So again, information on our website at 
SFPlanning.org. Thanks. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
This week, the Land Use Committee considered the legislative amendments for the 
proposed project at 542-550 Howard Street, also known as Parcel F. This project includes a 
construction of a new 61-story mixed use building which will include 165 dwelling units, a 
hotel, office space and retail space. The project also will construct a pedestrian bridge 
providing public access to the Salesforce Park. Commissioners, you heard this originally 
and approved it on January 9, 2020. However, due to a change in Affordable Housing 
delivery from off site to in-lieu fee, the project required partial re-entitlement.  It came 
back to you on January 28th of this year and was approved unanimously. This project was 
heard at Land Use on February 22nd, and after extensive deliberation, the items were 
continued two weeks to March 8th. 
 
At this week’s Land Use Committee hearing, public comment was generally supportive of 
the project and focused on the project’s public benefits. Some comments against the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 11, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
project were aimed at the missed opportunity to maintain Natoma Street as a car free 
public right-of-way. Supervisor Peskin raised the same issues he raised at the last hearing, 
including the shadow impacts on Willie Woo Woo Wong Park and the ability of the 
Planning Commission and the Recreation and Parks Department to modify shadow 
allowances. At this hearing, he also questioned the project sponsor if they secure a bank 
guarantee instead of a letter of credit to safeguard funds for the Affordable Housing in the 
event of unforeseen circumstances that would impact overall project delivery and the 
ability to pay the Affordable Housing In-Lieu Fee. Supervisor Preston questioned the 
timing of Affordable Housing Fee payments stipulated in the Development Agreement, 
and supported Supervisor Peskin’s general efforts to guarantee the payment of the 
Affordable Housing Fee. In the end, the Committee voted 3-0 to send the item to the Full 
Board without recommendation. It will be heard at the Full Board on March 16th.  
 
At the Full Board this week, 118-134 Kissling Street received its first read. A resolution 
urging departments to create a permanent Shared Spaces Program, sponsored by 
Supervisor Haney was adopted. And the Landmark Initiation for 2750 19th Avenue, also 
known as the Trocadero Clubhouse, also was adopted. And that's all I have for you today.