6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 29, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee  
• 210426 Initiating Landmark Designation - Lincoln Park “City Cemetery.” Sponsor: Chan, 
Staff: Boudreaux. Item 2 
 
• 210726 Initiating Landmark Designation - Clay Theatre. Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: 
Boudreaux. Item 3 
 
This week, the land use committee initiated landmark designation for two sites. Lincoln 
Park City Cemetery, sponsored by Supervisor Chan, which will be the City’s first 
archeological landmark, and the Clay Theater, sponsored by Supervisor Stefani. Both 
items were recommended to the Full Board as a Committee Report.  
 
Full Board 
• 210285 Planning, Business and Tax Regulations, Police Codes - Small Business Recovery 
Act. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read 
• 210674 Planning Code - Code Corrections Ordinance. Sponsor: Planning Commission. 
Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210599 Administrative Code - Establishing the Sunset Chinese Cultural District. Sponsor: 
Mar. Staff: Ikezoe. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210756 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Disapproval - 5 Leland 
Avenue and 2400 Bayshore Boulevard. Staff: Starr. Items 56-59 
 
The big item at the Board this week was an appeal of the Planning Commission’s denial 
of the CU authorization at 5 Leland for a Cannabis Retail store. The Project includes the 
establishment of a 2,200- square- foot Cannabis Retail Use with no on-site smoking or 
vaporizing within the ground floor commercial space. This Commission heard the 
proposed Application on May 27 of this year and voted four to three to disapprove. 
 
The appellants in this case were also the applicants since they were appealing the denial 
of the CU authorization. In their brief the appellants claimed that there was not an 
overconcentration in the neighborhood, that community opposition was matched by 
community support, and that there was an opportunity for 100% ownership by an 
equity applicant. However during their presentation, they mainly focused on refuting 
the findings in the Planning Commission’s motion. 
 
There was organized opposition to the appeal made up of representatives from the 
neighborhood. Their main claim was that the Planning Commission got this one right, 
and that there is an over concentration in the neighborhood because the other Cannabis 
Retail is but 68 feet away. They also had concerns about the impacts to the 
neighborhood’s youth. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 29, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
The hearing lasted from about 3:00 to 6:30, with public comment taking up most of the 
time. The public comment was like what this commission had heard during their 
hearing. Those in favor of the appeal spoke of their long association with SF and the 
neighborhood, the fact that this was an equity applicant and that there was a need for 
more outlets for cannabis patients in this part of the city. Those against spoke of their 
concerns over crime, and how this would impact children. They also wanted a better 
variety of restaurants and stores in their neighborhood and were concerned about over 
concentration.  
 
At the end of public comment, Supervisor Walton spoke about the difficult decision 
before them. He expressed sympathy for both side but ended up saying that he wanted 
to support the appeal. Supervisor Melgar then made a motion to accept the appeal. She 
stated that she felt this was a difficult decision of the Planning Department given the 4-
3 split, but that ultimately, she thought this application should have been approved. Her 
motion was seconded by Supervisor Peskin. That voted passed 10-1 with Supervisor Mar 
the lone no vote.  
 
• 210791 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 249 Texas Street. 
Staff: Starr. Continued to 10/19/21 
• 210801 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 5801 Mission 
Street. Staff: Starr. Continued to 9/21/21 
 
• 210426 Initiating Landmark Designation - Lincoln Park “City Cemetery.” Sponsor: Chan, 
Staff: Boudreaux. Item 73, Adopted 
 
• 210726 Initiating Landmark Designation - Clay Theatre. Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: 
Boudreaux. Item 74, Adopted 
 
The Board is not on recess for the rest of August. Thank you for your time and have a great 
break yourself.