9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 24, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 12 of 16 
 
  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. A couple of items. One, I know I have mentioned this 
previously but again I wanted to recognize and thank the many Planning staff who served 
over the last 15 months as Disaster Service Workers. You may know that the Covid Command 
Center is starting to transition and phase out at Moscone. We have about 8 staff who are still 
out on DSW but expecting most to return in the next week or so. But in total, extraordinarily 
we had 53 staff members who served at some point over the last 15 months as Disaster 
Service Workers and in various capacities from helping getting schools re-opened to 
facilitating safe sleeping sites to vaccination education and outreach in vulnerable 
communities. So, tremendously important roles. Many, have described, the work as 
challenging but some of the most rewarding they have done over the course of their careers. 
And I hope helped in all of our efforts in kind of getting San Francisco back on track and a 
leader in the pandemic response. So again, I wanted to just thank our staff who have served 
because it was a huge number of them.  
 
Also, I wanted to report we had the third meeting of the Equity Advisory Council last week. 
I wasn't able to attend because I was out. We will continue to post summaries on our 
website. This one will be up today if it isn't already. The discussion was focused on again 
developing priorities for the council's work with housing recovery, our equity plan, our 
budget and priorities and our communications and outreach strategies as the primary topics 
for the council to consider. There was a good discussion. Director Shaw joined from MOHCD 
about the Housing Element. The next meeting will be in July about our Equity Plan. And 
again, we will continue to post summaries of those meetings on our website.  
 
Also, I wanted to mention two state bills that could affect San Francisco in our work that are 
moving through the legislative process, SB 9 and SB 10. Again, it is unclear what will happen 
to these bills as they move through the process but this is starting to get to final legislation 
as we move through the summer. SB 9 would make approval of 2-unit projects in single 
family districts ministerial under certain conditions. Those being if there are no demo or 
alteration of the affordable unit, if they don’t demo more than 25% of an existing structure 
and if they are not located in a historic district. SB 9 also allows for subdivision of existing 
lots in RH-1 districts under certain conditions as well. And then SB 10 would allow cities to 
up-zone any parcel to allow for up to 10 units without environmental review. So, the bill 
itself wouldn't rezone any parcel and cities would require legislative action to make zoning 
changes. But in cases where they are allowing up to 10 units, they would not have to 
undertake environmental review for the legislation. So, I just wanted to give you those quick 
summaries. That is my report unless there are questions.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you, Director Hillis for thanking our Disaster Service Workers. Special thanks to them. 
It is very difficult to balance a career and have a side  job that is extremely challenging. It 
made being vaccinated at Moscone at least significantly easier because it was a large group 
of positively minded supportive staff. Again, thank you to everybody.  
 
I have a question regarding the City’s request for all City employees to be vaccinated. I 
assume, assume is the word, that Commissioners will be all returning to City Hall would fall 
under the same requirement. I would like, if you can, verify that for all of us. I think it is a 
great rule from the City. I personally believe that we all need to be vaccinated. And hope 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 24, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 13 of 16 
 
that we will find a way to see each other all again in person at City Hall in the very near 
future.  
 
As to the last item you mentioned, SB 9 and SB 10. I have been reading including, 
Representative Chu’s strong comments against SB 9 that just came out a few days ago. Very 
interested to hear you update us as it goes along. There was strong comments already in 
papers. People discussing the topic and how it applies particularly to San Francisco. Again, 
San Francisco has to have a different response and should have a different response to all of 
these State legislative piece regarding housing. Thank you for bringing it up and I look 
forward for you keeping us abreast on how it develops as it goes forward. Thank you. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Commissioner Moore. We will certainly keep you updated because I imagine 
things will change as they move through the process. And that is my understanding too, 
Commissioners would fall under the rules that employees fall under. We just got that 
guidance yesterday so we will confirm that and let you know. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
You are talking about vaccination right now. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Yes. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you. Director Hillis, regarding SB 9 and SB 10. If you could please send the 
Commissioners an overview of the State legislations. That would be beneficial for me to 
understand it better. Thank you. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Okay, I will. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
None.