7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. No announcements today. Hope you all had a good break 
and a good holiday. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
• 210381 Planning Code - Massage Establishment Zoning Controls. Sponsors: Ronen; 
Mandelman. Staff: V. Flores 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 2, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
 
At land use this week, the Committee considered Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that would 
amend the Planning Code to include sole practitioner massage within the definition of 
Health Services and to regulate Massage Establishments consistent with Health Services 
controls.  
 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on June 3rd and recommend approval with 
modifications. Those modifications were:  
⋅ 
Allowing Massage accessory to Personal Services on any floor, like the exception 
proposed for Hotels. 
⋅ 
Maintain the more permissive controls for Massage Establishments even if the 
Health Services controls are more restrictive in that district; and  
⋅ 
Some other clerical amendments  
 
During land use, there were three public comments: 
⋅ 
Two in support of the Ordinance; and  
⋅ 
Linda Chapman in opposition  
 
During discussions, Supervisor Peskin had some questions about specific terminology in  
the Code, and Supervisor Preston requested to be added as a co-sponsor. 
 
The Committee then made a Motion to accept the amendments proposed by the Planning  
Commission, this motion was approved unanimously. 
 
The committee continued the item one week because the accepted amendments were  
substantive. This motion was also approved unanimously. 
 
Full Board 
• 210807 Planning Code - Repealing Article 12 Regarding Oil and Gas Facilities. Sponsor: 
Chan. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210452 Planning Code - Exemption from Neighborhood Notification and Review 
Requirements for Grandfathered Medical Cannabis Dispensaries Converting to Cannabis 
Retail. Sponsor: Mayor Staff: Christensen. Passed First Read 
 
• 210810 Planning Code - Business Signs on Awnings and Marquees. Sponsors: Stefani; 
Chan. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
As stated, I do not have a report from the Board of Appeals but the Historic Preservation 
Commission did meet yesterday and considered several legacy business applications. The 
first at 300 19th Avenue, a personal favorite of mine, Tia Margarita, the Performing Arts 
Workshop Inc. on San Jose Avenue, Tu Lan Vietnamese Restaurant, another favorite of 
mine on 6th Street, Dark Garden Unique Corsetry Inc. on Linden Street, as well as the Hyde 
Street Studios on Hyde Street. Finally, they adopted or forwarded a recommendation for 
approval for Landmark Designation of the Golden Gate Valley Carnegie Library on Green 
Street. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 2, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 8