6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
• 210674 Planning Code - Code Corrections Ordinance. Sponsor: Planning Commission. 
Staff: Starr. 
 
 
This week, there was one item on the land use agenda related to planning, which was the 
Planning Commission sponsored Code Correction’s ordinance. This ordinance is intended to 
clean up errors in the Planning Code, such as typographical errors, updating cross-
references, and other non-substantive revisions to clarify or simplify Code language. You 
recommended approval for this ordinance on February 25, 2021.  
 
 
At the land use hearing, Supervisor Preston had concerns about removing a provision that 
disqualified certain project with a history of an Ellis Act Eviction. This provision is being 
removed from the code because the courts ruled that we could not use an Ellis act eviction 
as justification for denying a project. As a tenant’s rights advocate, Preston wanted to make 
sure that it was absolutely necessary to remove the language but had not been able to get 
his questions answered before the hearing. As such, he moved to duplicate the ordinance 
and remove the Ellis Act reference deletion from the main file and continue the duplicated 
ordinance to the call of the chair. These actions received unanimous support by the other 
committee members, and they then voted to forward the amended version to the Full Board 
as a committee report.  
 
 
Full Board 
• 210182 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 2500-2530 18th Street Affordable Housing Special 
Use District. Sponsors: Walton; Ronen and Stefani. Staff: Flores. PASSED second read  
 
• 210284 Administrative, Public Works, and Transportation Codes - Shared Spaces. 
Sponsors: Mayor; Mandelman, Safai, Stefani, Haney and Peskin. Staff Abad. Passed 
Second Read 
 
• 210285 Planning, Business and Tax Regulations, Police Codes - Small Business Recovery 
Act. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr.  
 
 
Also on the docket was the Mayor’s Small Business Recovery Act, which was up for its first 
read at the Board. As you may recall, this item was amended at committee by Supervisor 
Peskin, taking a significant number of the provisions out or the ordinance. One provision 
that was removed was the elimination of 311 notification for principally permitted 
businesses in the Eastern Neighborhood’s Districts. However, this amendment conflicts with 
another provision that was left in the ordinance, which requires principally permitted 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 15 
 
ground floor businesses throughout the city to be approved by all permitting Departments 
within 30-days of the application date.   
 
 
Despite what some may think, the Planning Department does not have magical 
superpowers that allow us to bend time. It is impossible for all permitting agencies to 
approve a permit within 30 days when the Planning Department’s notification period is 30 
days.  A typically 311-notification can take anywhere between 60-90 days, and even if by 
some miracle we were able to shorten that duration to a week, we would still miss this the 
30-day deadline.  
 
 
My understanding is that the Supervisor Peskin was aware of this issue as the sponsor’s 
office did brief him on the impacts his amendments would have. It’s not clear how we will 
handle projects in the Eastern Neighborhood Districts that require 311-notification, but as 
always, we will do our best.   
 
• 210709 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 575 Vermont 
Street. Staff: Starr. Continued to September 28 
 
• 210674 Planning Code - Code Corrections Ordinance. Sponsor: Planning Commission. 
Staff: Starr. Passed First Read  
 
• 210599 Administrative Code - Establishing the Sunset Chinese Cultural District. Sponsor: 
Mar. Staff: Ikezoe. Passed First Read. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
I did want to mention – I know I have mentioned in the past our internship program, I think 
it was last or two weeks ago. But all our interns, and as I mention there’s 39 of them of both 
high school and college interns, are watching the Commission hearing today. So, I just 
wanted to welcome them to the Commission meeting. As you know, we have received a 
huge number of applications for the internship program. I want to thank Tina Tam who is 
managing it and will let you know too their - they are going to do their final projects in 
August, and we will make sure to invite the Commission. So, I just wanted to make sure I 
mentioned that. Thanks. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday, and they considered one item at 
55 Hagiwara Tea Garden Drive for the art installation on the freize of Spreckels Temple of 
Music in Golden Gate Park. They ultimately approved but they did pay special attention into 
the method of attachment and any damage that it might create during its installation and 
removal.