9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just one item. I wanted to make you aware and the public 
that the notice of preparation for the Housing Element update EIR was issued on June 16th. 
And as you know, this is the first phase of our Environmental Review and also includes kind 
of the broad scoping of the EIR. Comments are still being accepted and will be accepted until 
July 16th on the NOP. Just to give you a reminder of the broader schedule of the draft EIR is 
anticipated to be issued in Spring 2022 with final EIR adoption in Housing Element hopefully 
in January 2023 to meet the state's mandated deadlines. So, more information can be found 
at SFhousingelement.org.  And that's all I have. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Scott Sanchez, Deputy Zoning Administrator: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered on appeal of a Planning 
Commission decision. 
 
2643 31st Avenue – Building permit for vertical addition to add one story to an existing two-
story single-family dwelling that is set back 24 feet from the front building wall. The 
Planning Commission heard this as a DR in January 2020 and took DR to reduce the massing 
at the rear of the building and with direction to staff to review the height of the front 
parapet. In line with the Commission’s decision, the project was ultimately approved with 
an additional setback from the rear building wall of 3’ to reduce the massing at the rear 
(resulting in an addition that is 31 feet long and 25 feet wide) and staff confirmed that the 
height of the front parapet was adequate to minimize the visual impact of the vertical 
addition. The DR requestor appealed the permit issuance and sought an additional setback 
from the front of the building – requesting that it be setback a total of 32 feet from the front 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 8, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 8 
 
building wall. The Board found the project complied with the residential design guidelines 
and unanimously denied the appeal. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and considered several items that 
might be of interest to the Planning Commission. They adopted a Recommendation for 
Approval to establish the Sunset Chinese Cultural District ordinance. This is an 
Administrative Code amendment. They heard an Informational Presentation from your staff 
on Centering Planning on Racial and Social Equity. And also had significant conversations 
on the proposed Planning Code amendment for the Review of Large Residence 
Developments. That will be coming to you on July 22nd I believe. They ultimately adopted 
a Recommendation for Approval with staff's proposed modifications. However, they had 
significant concern and added a “whereas” to acknowledge that over some of the proposed 
items in the legislations, specifically, the 2,500 square foot benchmark or threshold and the 
10% expansion standards so to speak. And then they felt that some of these numbers were 
a bit arbitrary, including the 10-year threshold for expansion of large residences. Again, 
Commissioners, this item will be coming to you for your consideration on July 22nd. Finally, 
they did approve a Permit to Alter at 233 Geary Street for some minor ground floor exterior 
modifications to the historic I. Magnin building.