5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon Commissioners. Just two announcements, one I just wanted to let you all 
know we are officially back in the office next week starting November 1st so that's when we 
start with our staff being in the office at least two days a week and possibly three days 
remote but it's our first time fully occupying 49 South Van Ness so we are looking forward 
to that.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
And I wanted to announce to another staffing change. Adam Varat, who many of you have 
known and you've seen here at the Commission, he's leaving us. He's not going far though 
he's going to the Port to be their direct-- Deputy Director of Planning for Waterfront 
Resilience programs. He's been with Planning for 19 years, all within our Citywide Planning 
division. And as you know like Kate, he's passionate about what he does and thoughtful. 
He's been involved in most of our long-range Planning work from Climate Resilience to 
managing our City Design group work to developing a Better Streets plan to ConnectSF. So, 
he will be sorely missed but he will be close by and working with us on our resilience work 
with the Port. So congrats to Adam and those are my announcements for today unless you 
have any questions. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Quick question Director Hillis. Since I know he’s been working with the Climate Resilience 
group. Do you have any prospects who’s going  to replace him on that aspect? 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
We don't yet. We're meeting with or I'm meeting with the Citywide team to scope out  their 
work. I mean, I'll say also which I should have mentioned again, it's a bit of a tough budget 
year. So we just got the revenue numbers in for October which we thought were on a more 
positive trajectory but turned out to be fairly poor compared to budget so we’re looking at 
$8-10 million shortfall on the year. So making, filling vacancies difficult. I'm meeting with 
the Citywide division and we’re looking at work programs in order to prioritize the work but 
clearly that is important work that we will continue to do. So, I’ll have more on that. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Congrats to him hopefully he still can continue to work through the Planning Department 
because that is a really important program. Thank you. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
Yeah. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
I did have one question and first of all congrats to Adam. It’s a lost for us but I’m glad that 
he’s going to the Port where there’s lots of planning and lots of buildings, a lot of things  
happening there so definitely it's a great place to have such a skilled planner. I was just 
curious and an idea, it seems like sometimes when we're getting folks calling in the 
continuances are a little confusing for folks. And I don't know what folks see on the screen 
at home. Would it be possible to have a slide that just lists what items are being continued 
so folks can read along with it? Maybe we already do that, but just to improve a little bit the 
communication because it seems that people on the line get confused and then people 
hangout because they don't understand what continuance is or what's happening with that. 
Some people join late and then they would still miss it. So, I recognize we're not going to 
catch everybody but just curious if you have any thoughts or insight on that. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. It comes up on the screen but I think your idea of sharing of screen that lists the 
continuances and the items that are up for Continuance is something we can do. Especially 
now that Jonas is fully adept at sharing his screen . 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you, Director Hillis. It's certainly something we can consider and possibly work with 
SFGov TV to have the ticker note Continuances. So let me put my offices brain trust to work 
on that and see what we come up with. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Great thank you. I don't want to make my work, just trying to see if we can help folks a little 
bit. Thank you. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: There is no report from the Board of Appeals and the 
Historic Preservation Commission did not meet yesterday.  
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
210868 Planning Code - Inclusionary Housing Program Updates. Sponsors: Ronen; Chan. 
 
Staff: Grob.  
 
First at Land Use was Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that would update the city’s Inclusionary 
Program to, among other things, ensure that the tenure of market rate units and BMR units 
in the same development match. 
 
Commissioners, you heard this item on October 14 and voted unanimously recommended 
the ordinance to the Board. 
 
At the land use hearing there were about 5 public commentors, all in favor of the ordinance. 
The discussion among the committee members was very positive, and Supervisors Peskin, 
Preston, and Melgar all requesting to be added as co-sponsors. The Committee then 
recommended the item to the Full Board. 
 
210807 Planning Code - Repealing Article 12 Regarding Oil and Gas Facilities] Sponsor: 
Chan. Staff: Starr.  
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Chan’s ordinance that would repeal Article 12 
Regarding Oil and Gas Facilities. Commissioners, you heard this item on October 14 and 
recommended approval with modifications. The modification you proposed was:  
 
• Amend the definition of Heavy Manufacturing 2 and 3 to exclude from the 
definition the production or refining of petroleum products associated with oil and 
gas exploration.  
 
At the hearing, there were no public commentors. Ketty Groth from Supervisor Chan’s office 
wanted to incorporate the Planning Commission’s recommendation, but was not able to get 
the amendments drafted in time, so the item was continued for one more week to allow 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
those amendments to be finalized. The vote to continue the item for a week was passed 
unanimously. 
 
210808 Planning Code - Requirements for Laundromats and On-site Laundry Services. 
Sponsors: Peskin; Chan, Preston, Ronen, Mandelman, Haney, Walton and Mar . Staff: V. 
Flores. 
 
Finally, the committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would require a CU to 
change the use of a Laundromat to another use.  
 
This item appeared in front of Planning Commissions on October 14th, where you 
recommended approval with modification. The proposed modifications included: 
 
• Revise the Laundromat definition to require washing/drying as part of the services.  
• Amend the Ordinance to include more quantifiable findings.  
 
Supervisor Peskin incorporated portions of the second modification to provide additional 
flexibility to Planning Staff when analyzing CUA findings; however, he did not include the 
modification to revise the Laundromat definition to require washing/drying as part of the 
services.  
 
During the hearing, there were six public comments, all in support of the Ordinance. After 
public comment there was no significant discussion among the Supervisors, however 
Supervisor Melgar did ask to be added as a sponsor to the ordinance. The Committee then 
forwarded the amended ordinance to the Full Board. 
 
FULL BOARD 
 
210600 Planning Code - Small Business Zoning Controls in Chinatown and North Beach and 
on Polk Street. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 
210865 Health, Planning, Police Codes - Various Cannabis Sunset Dates. Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff: Not Staffed. PASSED Second Read 
 
210497 Planning Code and Zoning Map - Delete Life Science and Medical Special Use 
District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Shaw. Passed First Read 
 
210699 Planning, Administrative Codes - Accessory Dwelling Units. Sponsors: Mandelman; 
Ronen, Preston and Melgar. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read 
 
210927 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 35 Ventura Avenue Project. Staff: Taylor. Continued to November 9 
 
210919 Hearing - Appeal of Final Environmental Impact Report Certification - Proposed 469 
Stevenson Street Project. Staff: Range. 
 
The Board did take up the Appeal of the EIR for 469 Stevenson Street. The proposed project 
would demolish the existing surface parking lot with 176 parking spaces, and replace it with 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 13 
 
495 dwelling units, 4,000 square feet of ground-floor retail and a three-level-below ground 
parking garage. The project would also provide 73 affordable dwelling units onsite. 
 
The Appellants- Yerba Buena Neighborhood Consortium- were represented at the hearing 
by John Elberling and attorney Susan Brant-Hawley. In their appeal statements, the 
Appellant disagreed that the department could analyze geotechnical issues in the initial 
study rather than the EIR, and disagreed on the Department’s reliance on state and local 
codes and the DBI review process. The Appellant believed the CEQA finding to be 
inadequate and disagreed with the department’s conclusions about historic resources 
impacts. The Appellant raised concerns about the project’s potential to result in 
gentrification and displacement. And the Appellant disagreed with the Planning 
Commission’s decision to reject the alternative that would have resulted in less than 
significant impacts on Mint Plaza. 
 
In their rebuttal, the Department refuted each of these assertions point by point citing CEQA 
law, building code standards, and expounding on the geotechnical report. Notably they also 
responded to the gentrification impacts, even though those are not technically under the 
purview of CEQA. Stating that a project-specific analysis was prepared, which findings 
suggest that while some displacement may occur, it is not the inevitable result of 
gentrification, and that many factors influence whether displacement occurs. Further 
gentrification and displacement resulting from this development is not supported by the 
available academic literature on the subject.  
 
There were approximately 6 speakers in favor of the appeal, Including SF Heritage and SoMa 
Pilipinas, and approximately 14 speakers in favor of denying the appeal, including Local 22, 
Mid-Market Coalition, Housing Action Coalition, San Francisco Building Trade Council, the 
Filipino Community Development Corp., and S.F. Senior Power. 
 
During the hearing, some supervisors disagreed with the department and City Attorney’s 
position on the standards of EIR adequacy. They also raised concerns about the 
gentrification and displacement analysis for the project. Several supervisors did not agree 
that it is adequate to rely on the geotechnical report, local and state codes, and the DBI 
process to ensure that there are no significant impacts. Questions were raised about the 
historical resources impacts analysis. Concerns were also raised about the alternatives for 
the significant and unavoidable shadow impact identified in the EIR. 
 
There were two votes on this issue, the first was to deny the appeal. That voted failed on a 
3-8 vote with Supervisors Haney, Safai, and Stephanie voting for the motion. They then 
voted to uphold the appeal, and that vote passed on the same 8-3 vote margin. 
 
I can’t tell you how much the Legislative team has relied on Kate over the years. I’d just like 
to say Thank you for your service and all the help you’ve given us over the years. we’re going 
to miss you a lot Kate. Best of luck.