5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
• 210497 Planning Code and Zoning Map - Delete Life Science and Medical Special Use 
District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Shaw. 
 
The first time at Land Use Committee this week was the Planning Code and Zoning Map 
change sponsored by Supervisor Walton that would delete Life Science and Medical Special 
Use District. Commissioners, you heard this item on July 22 this year and voted to approve 
with modifications. The proposed modification was to also eliminate the "Industrial 
Protection Zone Special Use District," and include a grandparenting clause. 
 
The Supervisor did not include the Commission’s recommendation but did indicate that he 
planned to introduce separate legislation to address that issue. 
 
There was one public comment, but the comments related to the IPZ controls. There were 
no other comments from the public or Committee. The Supervisors then voted to forward 
the item to the full board with recommendation. 
 
• 210699 Planning, Administrative Codes - Accessory Dwelling Units. Sponsors: 
Mandelman; Ronen, Preston and Melgar. Staff: V. Flores. Item 3 
 
Next the committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance on ADUs, which would 
enhance existing tenant protections through a new written declaration to the Rent Board. 
This declaration would include a description of housing services that are located where the 
ADU(s) are proposed; and whether ADU construction would result in severance, reduction, 
or removal of housing services. 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on September 9th and recommend approval of 
the Ordinance. 
 
At the land use hearing, there were seven public commentors, all in support, mostly 
discussing the need to protect housing services and existing tenants’ rights. 
 
Supervisor Preston emphasized that this Ordinance does not change the law, but rather 
clarifies that removing housing services for an ADU is not just cause. It does change Planning 
Department process though, as we now must wait for the declaration on housing services 
from Rent Board before we could approve an ADU. Currently we rely on a Screening Form 
from DBI filled out by the owner. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
Before the Committee voted, Supervisor Peskin requested to be added as a co-sponsor. The 
Committee then forward this item to the Board with a positive recommendation. 
 
Full Board 
• 200519 Planning Code - Geary-Masonic Special Use District. Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: V. 
Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210734 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 396-398 12th Street (San Francisco 
Eagle Bar). Sponsors: Haney; Mandelman and Ronen. Staff: Westhoff. PASSED Second 
Read 
 
• 210600 Planning Code - Small Business Zoning Controls in Chinatown and North Beach 
and on Polk Street. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read  
 
• 210865 Health, Planning, Police Codes - Various Cannabis Sunset Dates. Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff: Not Staffed. Passed First Read  
 
• 210709 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 575 Vermont 
Street. Staff: Christensen. Continued to November 9, the parties are ever so close to 
reaching an agreement. 
 
• 210791 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 249 Texas Street. 
Staff: Westhoff.  
 
The Board did hear the CU appeal for the project at 249 Texas Street. This project would 
demolish an existing single-family home with an unauthorized dwelling unit on the ground 
floor and construct a three-story two-unit building with one 4-bedroom unit on the upper 
floors and a studio unit on the ground floor.  
 
This commission heard this item June 3. At that hearing, the Planning Commission voted 
five to two to approve the project with conditions. In addition to the standard Conditions of 
Approval the commission also added a condition that would subject the two new units to 
the Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance, per SB330. 
 
The appellant state two main reasons for their opposition in their appeal letter. First, that 
the Planning Commission mistakenly found the project “necessary and desirable” for the 
community, they believed that it was contrary to the public good to demolish this relatively 
affordable housing in the middle of an affordability crisis; and second that the project 
sponsor and staff falsely claimed that the new development is a SB 330 project, and as such 
that the replacement units would be rent controlled dwellings.  
 
They also alleged a lot of other things at the hearing including corruption at the Planning 
Department, lying by the project sponsor, and undue influence on the Planning Department 
by the developer. 
 
There was a lot of public comment, both for and against the project, but most of the 
comments were against the project. Those for the project cited the need for new housing 
and spoke to the character of the project applicants. Those against the project often spoke 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
harshly toward the Department and Commission, alleging corruption and incompetence. 
They also spoke against gentrification and displacement, which they felt this project would 
exacerbate.   
 
The supervisors had a lot of questions for staff. Supervisor Melgar questioned our reliance 
on the project sponsor’s contractor to determine whether or not the bedrooms were in 
compliance with the building code. Supervisor Preston and Melgar had a lot of questions 
regarding the applicability of SB 330 and the lack of an SB330 application. Luckily Kate 
Conner was able to join the meeting and provide a Master Class in SB 330 as well as poise 
and presentation. 
 
At the end of the hearing, Supervisor Walton read a statement into the record, outlining his 
findings to overturn the Planning Commission’s decision. Among other issues, he cited that 
the replacement units were not equal to the ones being lost; the proposed ground floor unit 
was studio and the current ground floor unit had three bedrooms. He also cited other 
procedural issues and that given the affordability of the proposed units compared to the 
existing units, overall, the project was not necessary or desirable. The vote to overturn the 
Commission’s action was unanimous.  
 
• 210901 Hearing - Appeal of Final Mitigated Negative Declaration - Proposed 1525 Pine 
Street Project. Staff: Li. 
 
Finally, the Board considered the Final Mitigated Negative Declaration for the project at 
1525 Pine Street. The project proposes the demolition of existing restaurant (Grubstake), 
construction of 8-story building containing 21 dwelling units and 2,855 sf of commercial 
space. The Planning Commission rejected PMND appeal on 5/6/21 and approved project on 
7/22/21. 
 
Appellant’s issues were that the Analysis of impacts of historic resources is inadequate; 
Analysis of shadow impacts did not include private interior spaces of adjacent residential 
building; Analysis of cumulative transportation impacts is inadequate; and the Analysis of 
wind impacts did not include private roof decks of adjacent residential building. 
 
About 20-25 members of the public spoke in support of the project and about the same 
number in support of the appeal. The primary issues raised at the hearing were the future 
solar access within private residences at the existing Austin condo building and the historic 
significance of and the desire to preserve the Grubstake restaurant. 
 
After public comment, Supervisor Peskin agreed with Planning that all the appeal concerns 
raised including the historic issues were adequately responded to by Planning's response 
and CEQA documents. The Board the voted unanimously to uphold the CEQA determination 
and deny the appeal.   
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals met yesterday and considered two items that may be of interest to the 
Planning Commission: 
 
1224 Funston Street – The Board heard an appeal of a building permit to construct new 
single-family dwelling at the front of the subject lot (which features a non-complying 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
structure at the rear). The proposal involves a previous granting of front setback and rear 
yard variances by the Zoning Administrator, which were appealed last year and upheld by 
the Board of Appeals. The Planning Commission heard this matter as a DR in July 2020 and 
unanimously approved the project as proposed. Similarly, the Board unanimously denied 
the appeal and approved the project. 
 
530 Sansome Street – The Board heard 4 appeals on the project at 530 Sansome Street – 2 
appeals on the Planning Commission’s Downtown Project Authorization under Section 309 
and 2 appeals on the Zoning Administrator’s granting of variances. The project is an 
approximately 218’ tall mixed-use tower which features the reconstruction of SFFD Station 
No. 13. The Appellants argued that the Planning Commission erred and abused their 
discretion in granting exceptions under the downtown project authorization and that the 
Zoning Administrator failed to make the required variance findings. The Board considered 
these arguments and unanimously denied all 4 appeals. 
 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and they considered the Housing 
Element Update as well as the Housing Element Update to the EIR. Neither were action 
items. They were both informational but there seem to be strong consensus that the 
preservation alternatives and the track that the staff is on related to the draft EIR is the 
appropriate course.  
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Linda Chapman – Comment on the Board of Supervisors report on the 
appeal of the Pine Street project