6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. At this week's 
Land Use hearing, there were no Planning Department items. However, at the Full Board 
this week, the Board voted to approve the landmark designation initiation resolution for the 
Eagle Bar which is sponsored by Supervisor Haney. Also at the Full Board this week, 
Supervisor Mandelman introduced an ordinance titled Review of Large Residence 
Development and issued a draft union request to the City Attorneys to draft an ordinance 
that would allow for four units in RH districts on corner lots and lots within half a mile of 
gated transit stations. As the 4-Unit Ordinance has not been drafted, I don't have any 
specifics on that one. However, the Large Home Ordinance would require conditional use 
authorization on any projects in RH Districts that created a dwelling unit with more than 
2,500 gross sq ft. For dwelling unit smaller than 2,500 sq ft, it would require conditional use 
authorization increasing the dwelling unit size by more than 50% or up to 2,500 sq ft. The 
Ordinance does provide an exception to the 50% rule so long as the project also increases 
density. No resulting units over 2,500 gross sq ft, no proposed dwelling unit is less than a 
third the size of the largest unit and the subject building is not Historic Resource. The 
Ordinance also allows for a modest 10% increase for buildings 2,500 gross sq ft or more.  
 
 
On a related note, members of the Berkeley City Council announced today that they are also 
introducing a resolution calling for an end to exclusionary Zoning Laws. This in addition to 
the work at Sacramento and Portland are doing seems to be a positive trend in the housing 
policy on the west coast. That is all I have for you today and I am happy to take any questions.  

San Francisco Planning Commission