8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Good afternoon Commissioners. One, I wanted to echo the thanks to 
Commissioner Chan, who really inspired us to move quickly on the fellowship and the 
Young Planner's Fellowship. You have all seen the success of our College Internship 
Program, so we hope and intend that this will be as successful, so thank you, 
Commissioner Chan. And thank you, Commissioner Tanner, for your words about the 
growing anti-Asian rhetoric and violence that we're seeing in San Francisco and around 
the nation. We're having various conversations at the staff level about that and hope to 
have more. But I think it only heightens the importance of our collective work around 
Racial and Social Equity, and that’s taking hold in our centering racial equity in our Housing 
Element, strengthening our Cultural Districts, applying the Equity Budget Tool to kind of 
our decisions around the budget, but I think it underscores, too, the amount of work we 
still have to do, so thank you for those words.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 18, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 10 
 
I wanted to mention two pieces of legislation the Mayor introduced this week. One, which 
we've talked about in the past was to make permanent the Shared Spaces Program. That 
doesn't have any changes to the Planning Code. It’s mostly within in the Administrative 
Code, so it may not come back to the Commission. The other is a bit of Prop H 2.0. It's 
making adjustments to continue to streamline what Prop H did -- streamline the process 
for small businesses to open in San Francisco. Amongst other things, it reduces the number 
of use definitions in the code, expands the type of uses that are allowed to take advantage 
of our CB-3 program, expands the 30-day approval requirement for ground floor uses and 
other things, but you'll hear more about that. That will be before the Commission for your 
recommendation in the next couple weeks.  
 
And then finally, I just wanted to acknowledge the year anniversary of shelter in place and 
the hard work remotely and just thank you and staff for their continued dedication and 
flexibility. Especially to Jonas and our Commission Affairs team who quickly adapted to this 
format. I think we've had success under it, so thank you all.  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you, Director Hillis. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
This week the Land Use Committee considered this Commission’s ordinance that would 
make technical corrections and other amendment to the Central SoMa rezoning effort. 
Commissioners, you heard this item on September 24th and recommended approval. The 
item was also first heard at the Land Use Committee on February 8th and continued to the 
call of Chair so that staff could brief Supervisor Peskin on the ordinance. This week the 
Land Use Committee considered this Commission’s ordinance that would make technical 
corrections and other amendment to the Central SoMa rezoning effort. Commissioners you 
heard this item on September 24th and recommended approval. This item was also first 
heard at the Land Use Committee on February 8th and continued to the call of the Chair so 
that staff could brief Supervisor Peskin on the ordinance. 
 
This week, Supervisor Peskin made some minor amendments, and the Committee 
forwarded the item to the Full Board with recommendations. The Committee was 
scheduled to hear a resolution that would extend the interim controls requiring 
conditional use authorization for converting residential care facilities to other uses. 
However, the item was continued one week because the resolution needed to be 
amended.  
 
At the Full Board this week, the rezoning for 118-134 Kissling passed its second read, and 
the project approvals for 542-550 Howard Street also known as Parcel F received their first 
read. And that's all I have for you today. Thank you.