5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
Yes. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Corey Teague. The Board of Appeals did meet last 
August 18th during your break and considered the appeals of both the variance and the 
building permit granted for the property at 265 Oak Street. Both of which allow the 
construction of a new 2-unit building at the rear of the double frontage lot that has a 
secondary frontage lot on Lily Street.  And the permit came before the Planning Commission 
in February of last year for consideration of a request for Discretionary Review and the 
Zoning Administrator heard the Variance at the same hearing. The Commission voted 5-1 to 
not take DR and approve the project and the ZA granted the rear yard Variance that time. 
The DR Requester was also the appellant at the Board of Appeals, and she's an occupant of 
an adjacent building. And while the Board of Appeals had empathy for the potential 
construction impacts the projects would have on the adjacent buildings, they determined 
that the variance was justified and the building permits have been properly issued, and they 
unanimously denied both appeals.  
 
 
The Board also met last night but didn’t make any decisions related to Planning Commission 
decisions. However, I do want to note that the Board recently have a new Commissioner 
seated. His name is Jose Lopez and he is an attorney who was appointed by Mayor Breed on 
July 27th of this year. So, his term will run through July of 2024. Thank you. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, the Board of Supervisors are on recess, I’ve been informed. The Historic 
Preservation Commission did meet yesterday briefly and considered just a couple of items. 
Most importantly, the state mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls, which is on your 
agenda today, and they forwarded a recommendation for approval with staff's modification. 
So, you'll hear more about that shortly.