12. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, we have a couple of items. 1) a couple of you have asked - 
 
 
President Koppel: 
 
I'm sorry. Commissioner Diamond, did you have something? I missed you. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Yes, but maybe Director Hillis was already anticipating that. I was asking about the 
possibility of getting a report on SB9 and 10. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
That's what I was going to mention. I mentioned providing a memo to the Commission and 
a couple of you have asked for a hearing in addition to that memo. So, we will do that and 
we're prepping for that. So, it still has not been signed by the governor. I think that he has 
until early October to do that. So, we may wait until just after that, to prep for it, knowing 
that it's likely to be signed. So, look for that to come too. I also wanted to highlight, and 
Zoning Administrator Teague is here, that he sent a memo on the Office Development 
Annual Limit Program otherwise known as Prop M and now amended by Prop E. So, we 
wanted him to take a few minutes to give you a quick summary of that because I know it's 
somewhat related to the item that you'll be hearing later where you will be asked to make 
an Office Allocation. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Yes, thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioners, Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. I sent 
the memo last week. It's really just an updated accounting of the various kind of buckets 
that we have to track now, that Prop E amended Prop M. And the discrepancy that had to 
be corrected was that in December of last year, you granted an allocation to 598 Brannan 
Street within Central SoMa. At the time based on our tracking, we had a certain amount of 
availability in the large cap, but not enough for that entire project. So, some portion of that 
project was allocated out of the Central SoMa reserve. What we subsequently learned was 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 9, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 15 
 
that Parcel G in the Mission Rock development, which is  under the Port's jurisdiction, had 
actually received its building permit prior to that hearing. And so that automatically comes 
out of the large cap, kind of instantaneously. And so that changed the accounting whereas 
whenever you granted the allocation for 598 Brannan Street we were actually already in the 
red in terms of the large cap and the full allocation for Brannan Street needed to come out 
of the Central SoMa reserve. So, the memo just details that and gives an updated accounting 
of that, in terms of the numbers. That was the first project to pull from the Central SoMa 
reserve. And just a reminder that reserve was one of the features created in Prop E that kind 
of set aside a certain amount,1.7 million-square-feet of office space that could be allocated 
to Central SoMa projects, only the key sites. If they met certain conditions, such as providing 
certain community benefits. And so that was the first project to pull from that. So, there was 
no kind of situation where there was -- we were close to the limit of that in any way, it's 
really more of an accounting correction. But we wanted to make sure that you were aware 
of it. And then we'll be updating a more comprehensive tracking of the program and 
sending it out in the next couple of weeks. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thanks, Corey. And so if there aren't any questions related to that too I wanted to mention 
in late October, October 28th, we're going to have an Informational Hearing with OEWD, to 
piggyback on the recovery strategies hearings we've had before to look at kind of work 
spaces and how the recovery is impacting office vacancy and generally where the office 
market and PDR market and retail; we'll touch on to where markets are going and how this 
recovery compares to prior downturns and recoveries and, you know, and the changes in 
kind of how we work and how that may impact the use of future -- future office spaces. So 
that's scheduled for late October. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Hillis, I have a question for you. The discretion of the Commission can extend or 
shorten pending approvals that have been distributed yet not been realized. You're coming 
to a very kind of strange space where we have quite a few approvals that had been hanging 
out there for quite some time impacted by Covid, impacted by the significant global change 
in economy, not to mention ocean -- our ocean project on Mission Street. I am wondering if 
we should sometimes, with under your guidance, revisit some of these long-standing 
entitlements and see as we're coming up towards caps for new entitlements to kind of 
shoulder some of them. That doesn't mean that we have to revoke a project but we can say 
that the entitlement has to be passed on to somebody else, the allocation for the office cap 
has to be passed on to somebody else, instead of holding up other people from getting 
approvals. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
We can address this too in the October hearing when we talk about it. I mean, one of the 
issues as Corey said we're negative in our allocation. So can't grant approvals necessarily 
unless they fall under the kind of the Central SoMa reserve. Or it's a Port site or other specific 
condition. But we can definitely address that too as part of the hearing in October. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Well, I think our responsibility is to create a healthy balanced situation where approvals have 
been realized and not being stalled by those who are not capable at this moment to realize 
the project. It's a critical balance and I think we should revisit that as a question. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 9, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 15 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Sure. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I have a question Director Hillis regarding SB9 and 10. Since it's not been signed -- officially 
signed by the governor -- how will this affect with our EIR in terms of the Housing Element 
that we are in the process of right now? 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. It shouldn't have a big impact. I mean, even if it's signed and adopted, it won't have a 
significant impact on our Housing Element EIR. I mean if our Housing Element EIR was strictly 
looking at kind of changes to zoning that would allow for under I think in SB10 there's 10 
units or 12 units, then we wouldn't necessarily need to do an EIR related to that. But it's 
looking broader. So, it shouldn't have an impact to our EIR. What it may impact is like 
Supervisor Mandelman's legislation to change RH-1, 2 and 3 to allow for fourplexes citywide 
so that would qualify under SB10 and then not require an EIR to do that. So, I think that 
legislation was waiting for our Housing Element EIR to be completed to be able to move 
forward. And in SB10 if enacted may change that and allow that to move forward prior to 
the Housing Element. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. I guess another question because in terms of the state legislations and, you know, I'm 
not keeping up and I'm pretty sure that the Planning Department is keeping up with all of 
these state legislations. And in tandem with our Housing Element in terms of the analysis, 
sometimes we can request the financial impact of this -- you know, particularly for SB9 and 
10. I wonder where can that be in the process where we could ask some sort of a financial 
impact analysis on that too. Especially if it's not included -- or it will not impact the EIR for 
Housing Element. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
We can -- you know, again, we're -- we're trying to analyze SB9. It sounds simple but it gets 
a little complicated with our code. So, I mean, that's some of the information we'd like to 
provide to you when we come back to you and give you an Informational Hearing on those 
two, on those two bills. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Thank you. Director Hillis, a related question for you which is this Commission has been 
approving a large number of housing projects and yet we're hearing and seeing I think that 
it isn't necessarily translating into site permit approvals or the commencement of 
construction on any of these units. And I'm wondering if we could get some kind of analysis 
about pipeline of approved projects, how many are being built, are we needing to extend 
those entitlements? What is the issue that is preventing those from going forward? I know 
that we're hearing about construction costs and rental rates and sales prices being out of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 9, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 15 
 
whack, but it would be great to have the context and understand the disruption that might 
have been caused by Covid and the ability to actually produce these residential units as 
opposed to just get them entitled. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, we can certainly do that. I mean you get that quarterly pipeline report which kind of 
gives you a snapshot of where the housing projects you've approved are in the process. But 
perhaps we can add some more kind of color to that, to show -- give some understanding 
as far as we know as to why they may be kind of stuck or some of the changes we're seeing 
from prior pipeline reports. If we're seeing more entitled and not moving forward with 
building permits or whatever the case may be. So we can look at that. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
 
Thank you. 
 
13. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. The Board was back this week but because of the Labor 
Day holiday, Land Use Committee did not meet. And the one item that was on the Board 
concerning Planning, the Conditional Use appeal for 450 O'Farrell Street was continued to 
September 28th. So a short report for you today but I'm happy to answer any questions you 
may have. Thanks. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
And just to let the Commission know, the Board of Appeals did not meet last night.