8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Thank you for your comments Commissioner Tanner and 
for all of your work on the Commission to 1) Pass the resolution we did last summer to 
center our work on Racial and Social Equity in the ongoing work that has come as a result 
of that. As you said Commissioner Tanner, there’s a a long way to go but I think we are 
making good progress. I wanted to just highlight two projects that I had the opportunity 
to see this week with the Mayor and City staff. One, you may have read about in the 
Chronicle or attended virtually, the groundbreaking of the Potrero Power Station which 
you all were involved in approving and shaping. And our staff was certainly involved in it 
as well. It's great to see that project moving forward. The horizontal infrastructure work is 
moving forward as well as its preservation work on Station A. Ultimately it will be 2,600 
units of housing, 30% of which will be affordable, 1.6 million square feet of commercial 
space, seven acres of open space and much improved connections to the water. Thank you 
all for your work on that. I was also able to take a look at the Conservatory of Music, which 
the Mayor toured on Tuesday, which is in operation but they're phasing in the operation 
obviously because of the pandemic. But a wonderful project that was also the result of a 
DA approved and shaped by you all. It houses 420 students, there's 27 replacement units 
that are being occupied replacing the housing that was there and it is rent controlled 
housing as well as classroom space, studios and performance space. Both on the top of the 
building and at the corner of Hayes and Van Ness. So, great projects to see moving 
forward. And I just wanted to again thank you and the staff for all you've done to make 
those happen. Thanks. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon Commissioner’s Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs 
 
• 210284 Administrative, Public Works, and Transportation Codes - Shared Spaces. 
 
Sponsors: Mayor; Mandelman, Safai, Stefani and Haney 
 
 
This week the Land Use Committee had two meaty planning items before them. The first 
was the Mayor’s ordinance, co-sponsored by Supervisors Mandelman, Safai, Stefani, and 
Haney to make the Shared Spaces program permanent. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission