6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And just on that topic as well, those forums were recorded so are available through our 
website to view for those that may have missed and want to check them out. Just one item 
today, I invited Corey Teague here. He had sent you a couple of correspondences over the 
last two weeks. So, I just wanted him to give a quick update on those. One was a Letter of 
Determination that talked about COVID-related entitlement extensions and the other was, 
were a series of interpretations, most notably about rooms down in kitchen definitions. So, 
Corey. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Sure. Thank you. Good afternoon, President Koppel and Commissioners. I just wanted to 
briefly acknowledge those two documents that I issued in the last couple of weeks. The 
Commissioners were copied on both of those so you should have received them. They both 
are interest to the Commission. As Director Hillis mentioned the first from last week was 
related specifically to language and Planning Commission motions and also in various 
decision letters issued by the ZA that allows the ZA to grant extensions to performance 
periods for approvals if there's been appeal, litigation or delay by government agency. And 
so, that left it to basically determine that the Shelter in Place order that took effect in 
March 17th of last year, in combination with all the other local and state orders constituted 
a government delay to the ability to, for many projects to be able to adequately move 
forward. And essentially, stated that the period of time the overlap between that past year 
and the performance period would be extended for that same amount of time.  
 
The second document you were copied on was issued this past Monday. If you remember 
back in October, you considered and made recommendations on an ordinance to amend 
the Planning Code to address state ADU law. And at that time I came before you and let 
you know that I was working on a fairly large set of interpretations. It is kind of a hodge 
podge that includes a lot of different types of updates to interpretations but most notable 
being what Director Hillis mentioned which was repealing rooms down, but then also, 
creating a more clear definition of a kitchen which is not currently defined in the Planning 
Code or the Building Code, but is kind of necessary as we implement the code in terms of 
what is a dwelling unit and what's not a dwelling unit. So, again, that had a lot of different 
interpretations, and some are very minor and technical, but I wanted to acknowledge both 
of those documents and just let you know if you have any questions, of course, we can go 
into get in touch by phone or however to discuss any questions that you might have. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission