10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just wanted to mention some nominations the Mayor 
made to the Historic Preservation Commission. Four seats were up and expired at the end of 
last year. The Mayor reappointed Diane Matsuda, who is currently serving as the Vice 
President, as well as Chris Foley. She nominated Ruchira Nageswaran, who is an architect 
with Knapp Architects in San Francisco, for seat 1 which is currently occupied by 
Commissioner Hyland. And seat 3, there’s been no nomination yet made in that seat 
currently held by Commissioner Pearlman. So, I think – the three nominees are at Rules 
Committee next Monday, could be at the Board on Tuesday, then seated for next 
Wednesday’s Commission hearing. Thank you. 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
I don’t have any report from the Board of Appeals and the Historic Preservation Commission 
did not meet yesterday, but you were advised of the current situation at the Historic 
Preservation Commission by the Director just now. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 25, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. This week at 
the Land Use Committee, the Committee considered legislation associated with the 
development of 542 Howard Street, also known as Parcel F, sponsored by Supervisor Haney. 
The project included a zoning and height map amendment, a development agreement, and 
a consent provision. The zoning map amendment would rezone the site from a split P 
District, C-3-O SD to just the C-3-O SD and to reclassify the height and bulk designation for 
a portion of the project site. Commissioners, you heard this item on January 9th of last year 
and voted to recommend approval. There was significant discussion of this item at the Land 
Use Committee where Supervisor Peskin taking exception to the idea that Prop K or Section 
295 of the Planning Code specifically granted the Planning Commission or the Recreation 
and Parks Commission the broad authority to increase shadow budget for parks. Peskin is 
most interested to the impacts on the Willie Woo Woo Wong Playground in Chinatown as 
the park shadow budget was increased in 2012 to accommodate some of the Transbay 
Development including Parcel F. In the end, the item was continued to March 8th so that the 
project sponsor can continue community engagement and staff can provide follow up on 
questions posed by the Committee.  
 
 
At the Full Board this week, the 6-month retroactive extension for the Planning Commission 
review of-- that would allow a Temporary Use of Hotels and Motels for permanent 
Supportive Housing was filed at as—the item was tabled, sorry, as the ordinance was filed 
by the Mayor, so, there’s no need to seek any extension. So, that will not be coming to you 
at least under the current Board File Number. And that concludes my report and I am happy 
to take any questions.