12. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, we have a couple of items. 1) a couple of you have asked - 
 
 
President Koppel: 
 
I'm sorry. Commissioner Diamond, did you have something? I missed you. 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
Yes, but maybe Director Hillis was already anticipating that. I was asking about the 
possibility of getting a report on SB9 and 10. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
That's what I was going to mention. I mentioned providing a memo to the Commission and 
a couple of you have asked for a hearing in addition to that memo. So, we will do that and 
we're prepping for that. So, it still has not been signed by the governor. I think that he has 
until early October to do that. So, we may wait until just after that, to prep for it, knowing 
that it's likely to be signed. So, look for that to come too. I also wanted to highlight, and 
Zoning Administrator Teague is here, that he sent a memo on the Office Development 
Annual Limit Program otherwise known as Prop M and now amended by Prop E. So, we 
wanted him to take a few minutes to give you a quick summary of that because I know it's 
somewhat related to the item that you'll be hearing later where you will be asked to make 
an Office Allocation. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Yes, thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioners, Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. I sent 
the memo last week. It's really just an updated accounting of the various kind of buckets 
that we have to track now, that Prop E amended Prop M. And the discrepancy that had to 
be corrected was that in December of last year, you granted an allocation to 598 Brannan 
Street within Central SoMa. At the time based on our tracking, we had a certain amount of 
availability in the large cap, but not enough for that entire project. So, some portion of that 
project was allocated out of the Central SoMa reserve. What we subsequently learned was 

San Francisco Planning Commission