5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And just a little additional info on the Council. And there is information on our website as 
well for the public including who is on the Advisory Council. It is made up of 11 community 
leaders dedicated to working to advance Racial and Social Justice. Some familiar with our 
processes in the Planning Commission. I think you will recognize some of the names from 
your work on the Commission but some who aren't. And we thought that was a good idea 
to bring both leaders, who are familiar with our work as well as those who may not be. So 
in addition to, as I said deepening our engagement and advising us on how to deepen our 
engagement, we are looking for specific advise and input from the Council on our work 
around Housing Element and other General Plan updates, our budgeting and 
programmatic priorities, implementation of our Phase 1 of our Racial and Social Equity 
Plan as well as development of Phase 2. Please let us know if you have questions. It was an 
inter-Departmental effort in forming the council. So, I want to thank HRC and ORE as well 
as OEWD and Supervisor's offices who we consulted for their advice and thank Miriam 
Chion and Tameeka Bennet for their work. But particularly thank the Council for their 
willingness to participate.  
 
I also want to give you some news on the Permit Center at 49 South Van Ness expansion of 
in Person services there. Today was a soft launch of expansion of some services. Next 
Monday, May 10th will be an official launch of expanding over-the-counter permitting at 
the Permit Center. This is the first step to getting the Permit Center back up and running. 
So customers will still need to make appointments and will continue with the other 
permitting agencies, DBI, etc., to handle the same volume of over the counter permits. But 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 6, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
customers will be able to walk their plans to review stations as they did in the past rather 
than dropping them off. And obviously with the goal of getting same day approval which 
isn't feasible with just dropping off the permits. And over the next couple months we plan 
to phase out the need for appointments all together. And throughout this process, 
obviously we have been mindful of employee and customer safety. The Permit Center has 
updated its health and safety plan which has been approved by DHR and DPH. So, I wanted 
to give thanks, particularly to our PIC staff for their continued flexibility throughout this 
entire year as we have adapted our services in response to the pandemic; and that is my 
report. Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you for that report Director Hillis. I would like to tag on a quick question and maybe 
premature. Is there any possibility for getting an invitation to see the building? Perhaps in 
a small group or is that still a little bit into the future? 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
It probably can happen. So, let me look into it and we can send out an invitation because I 
think would be great for you all to see it. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
I think it would be great for all of us. Thank you. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon commissioners, Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
• 210353 Supporting California State Senate Bill No. 37 (Cortese) - Contaminated Sites. 
Sponsors: Mar; Walton, Melgar, Peskin, Preston, Chan and Haney. Staff: Gibson. Item 2 
 
This week the Land Use Committee held a hearing on a proposed Resolution, put forth by 
Supervisor Mar, that supports Senate Bill 37. 
 
SB 37 would, among other things, prohibit projects that are located on a site listed on the 
Cortese List from receiving a Commonsense exemption.  Sites on the Cortese list have 
hazardous substances in the soil, left from old underground fuel heating tanks, and old gas 
stations. Projects on these sites are currently not allowed to receive a Categorical 
Exemption.  
 
Prior to this resolution being introduced by Supervisor Mar, the Planning Department had 
flagged this state bill because it would significantly change the way we deal with CEQA 
determinations for projects on listed sites. 
 
Unlike other jurisdictions in California, most projects in San Francisco are discretionary. 
This means that any building permit the city issues needs an environmental 
determination. We currently issue Cat Ex determinations for most small projects, like 
window and door replacements or changes of use. In other jurisdictions these would be 
considered ministerial and not need a CEQA determination. Because current law prohibits 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 6, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
us from issuing a Cat Ex on Cortese sites, we use what is called a commonsense exemption 
for smaller projects that don’t disturb the soil. Removing the ability for us to issue a 
commonsense exemption would mean that these small projects, even if there isn’t any soil 
disruption, would require a Negative Declaration. Negative Declarations are much more 
time consuming and costly, start at $30,000 in Planning fees compared to about $300 for a 
Commonsense Exemption. 
 
During the hearing, the Committee heard from Supervisor Mar, Ryan Mickle who 
represented Senator Cortese’s office, Lisa Gibson, and Richard Drury of Lozeau Drury, LLP. 
 
Staff presentation described how our process is different than most jurisdiction in 
California, and how removing the possibility for commonsense exemptions would impact 
everything from small homeowners to low-income housing projects. This argument 
seemed to resonate with Supervisor Mar the sponsor of the Resolution, as well as 
Supervisor Melgar, but Supervisor Peskin appeared defensive and argumentative. He 
continually interrupted staff’s presentation and at one point challenged staff’s assertion 
that it cost $30,000 for a Negative Declaration. Once it was confirmed that the Planning 
fees for a Neg Dec do start at $30,000 he suggested reducing those fees. He didn’t say how 
we would do that, since we are a cost recovery department. 
 
There were several speakers during public comment. All seemed to support the Resolution, 
with only one or two expressing sympathy for staff’s concerns.  
 
At the end of public comment, Chair Melgar asked Senator Cortese’s staff if they would be 
open to clarifying in the legislation that it should not apply to small projects. Senator 
Cortese’s aide, Ryan Mickle, confirmed that the Senator’s intention is to target projects that 
move large amounts of soil.  They would be willing to consider exceptions for small 
projects. Supervisor Peskin moved to amend the resolution to incorporate non-substantive 
revisions proposed by Supervisor Mar at the beginning of the hearing but did not include 
modifications based on Staff’s concerns. This motion passed unanimously. Supervisor 
Peskin then moved that Resolution supporting SB 37 be recommended as amended as a 
Committee report, which also passed unanimously. So in the end, the resolution does not 
recommend that the legislation be amended to not apply to small projects or otherwise 
address concerns raised by staff. 
 
Full Board 
• 210286 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Lyon-Martin House, 651 Duncan 
Street. Sponsor: Mandelman, Preston. Staff: LaValley. Passed First Read 
 
• 210353 Supporting California State Senate Bill No. 37 (Cortese) - Contaminated Sites. 
Sponsors: Mar; Walton, Melgar, Peskin, Preston, Chan and Haney. Staff: Gibson. 
Adopted  
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There is no report from the Board of Appeals. The Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday and took action on a couple of items. The one significant item was the 
Landmark Designation of The Making of the Fresco Showing the Building of the City mural 
that was painted in the building of 800 Chestnut Street by Diego Rivera. And although 800 
Chestnut Street in and of itself is a landmarked building, Supervisor Peskin nominated the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 6, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
fresco itself as an individual landmark. And the Historic Preservation Commission adopted 
a recommendation for approval.