6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. I just want to briefly touch on some organizational shifts 
within the department. And I apologize I think they were mentioned last week during 
public comment for not bringing these to you earlier. I don’t view them as enormous or a 
huge changes. Staff generally stay in the same roles and their functions aren’t changed. 
And hopefully the biggest impact will be increased collaboration and consistency within 
the department and to facilitate the complicated job of our planners in increasingly 
complicated regulatory environment, things like SB9 and 10 that we just mentioned. So, 
two components to it, one merging Zoning and Compliance into Current Planning. The 
role of the Zoning Administrator, and Corey in this case remain exactly the same, the ZA 
and their duties, including Enforcement, Short-Term Rentals, TDM, the Zoning 
Administrator’s authority and the code and charter to opine on variances, code 
interpretations and issue LODs remains unchanged. Also, Kate Connor and her team who 
were formally under Dan Sider's shop, the Office of Executive Programs also merged under 
Current Planning. And you're obviously familiar with Kate and her work around the State 
Density Bonus, other state laws like SB35 and 330, BMRs, our liaison to the Rent Board, etc. 
So I know you share the great respect and admiration I have for both those functions 
because they're playing an ever important and complicated role in our analysis of projects. 
So that the notion is that they continue and actually be enhanced. But, again, the goal of 
this is to make the jobs of those who are managing project review easier with issues 
around Zoning, State Density Bonus, and other state laws, historic design. I wanted the 
folks making decisions and looking at projects housed in one division. I also think it is an 
opportunity to expand the knowledge of these issues for planners and ultimately more 
opportunities for advancement within the department. So, I just wanted to highlight this 
and as always kind of no change, no matter how minor I may think it is, doesn’t go without 
some scrutiny. So, Supervisor Peskin has asked for a hearing on these changes, which I'm 
happy to go and explain to them into the board and others about it. Supervisor Peskin, to 
my knowledge, didn't call me or Liz or Corey about this change prior to calling for the 
hearing but happy to go talk to them at that -- at a hearing of the board. I also wanted to 
mention some staff promotions within Current Planning. So, Natalia Kwiatkowska, who 
you have seen here and encountered, especially on issues of ADUs, becomes a Flex team 
leader and she was in that acting role previous to this. Sylvia Jimenez is our new Southwest 
team leader taking over for Delvin who retired earlier, and Rich Sucre was promoted to fill 
Liz Watty’s vacant position as Deputy Director of Current Planning. So, I wanted to make 
note of those changes too, I’m happy to answer questions if you have them. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 23, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Director Hillis, I would just advise with as your reorganizing the structure of the Planning 
Department to give us, the Planning Commissioner, ahead of time of all these changes. At 
least for me it’s good to hear and thank you for giving us an update. But I think in the 
future it will be great as well for us to know of any changes and I believe also as these 
change is happening for us to be informed in terms of like what it means like reorganizing 
the Zoning Administrator under Current Planning and I believe that most of the comments 
was the losing the economy and I think that is also something that we need to clarify in 
terms of the autonomous decision making of the Zoning Administrator and you know this. 
And at the same time what does it mean when the Zoning Administrator under Current 
Planning when usually when the Planning Director is not around the Zoning Administrator 
is the substitute as well. But with that entails as well. Perhaps that will be discussed in the 
Board of Supervisors that will be also good for us to know what this restructuring really 
means. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And just to add. I think it is really important to emphasize, I don’t get involved in the 
Zoning Administrator’s decisions around variances or code interpretations, which may be 
Letters of Determination. I don’t expect Ms. Watty to either. That function remains the 
same. I think what is important is to have that collaboration and consistency throughout 
the department. And so, having that knowledge within Current Planning who planners are 
dealing with kind of how the code applies to projects everyday is critical. And so, having 
that consistency and collaboration I think is extremely important and was kind of the 
primary factor in my decision to make that change. But I appreciate and apologize for not 
bringing it to you earlier. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, Director Hillis. 
 
 
SPEAKER: 
Ozzie Rohm – Planning re-organization concerns 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
  
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislation Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislation Affairs. I hope you are 
enjoying this beautiful San Francisco summer day on the second day of fall. While you 
were on break last week, the Board did meet. So this report will cover both last week and 
this week’s board hearings. Last week the Committee considered the Landmark 
Designation for the Ingleside Terraces Sundial at Sundial Park. This ordinance was 
originally sponsored by Supervisor Yee but Supervisor Melgar took up the sponsorship 
after he left  office. She also had to be recused from the hearing because she lived within 
500 feet of the Sundial Park. Ingleside Terraces Sundial and Sundial Park are located on the 
Entrada Court cul-de-sac at the Ingleside Terraces neighborhood. The Park and Sundial are 
significant for association with the development of resident park neighborhoods in San 
Francisco in the early 20th century and as distinctive examples of the ornamental landscape 
features common in these developments. It is also significant as a visual landmark 
associated with the Ingleside Terraces neighborhood. This landmark designation was 
initiated by the board in December of 2020 and recommended for landmark  status by the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 23, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
Historic Preservation Commission in April of this year. There was one caller in favor of the 
landmark designation. The Committee unanimously forwarded the item to the full board 
with a positive recommendation. Next on the agenda was Supervisor Mandelman’s 
ordinance that would require Conditional Use Authorization for the removal of residential 
care facilities and make residential care facilities principally permitted in most zoning 
districts. Commissioners, you heard this item on July 22nd of this year and recommended 
approval with modifications. The Commission’s proposed modifications were as follows: 1) 
to modify the provisions which requires Conditional Use Authorization to remove the 
residential care facility to sunset after three years; 2) encourage the sponsor and other city 
agencies to continue to seek and  support non land use solutions to alleviate financial 
burdens faced by residential care facilities; 3) amend the ordinance to only require 
Conditional Use Authorization for the proposed removal of a residential care facility if the 
facility was established legally; and finally 4) modify the first Conditional Use criteria to 
allow other parties that may  be relevant to the case to be consulted. Unfortunately, none 
of the Commissions’ recommendation modifications made it into the ordinance which was 
a surprise to staff. There were two callers during public comment, one in support of the 
ordinance and one who expressed various concerns of  the matter. At the end, the 
Committee then forwarded the item to the full board as a Committee Report with positive 
recommendation. Finally, the Committee held  a hearing on the ongoing saga at 2861 San 
Bruno Avenue. As you probably know, this project was originally allowed to have 10 units 
and ended up having 30. At the hearing, Planning was represented by Corey Teague and 
Tina Tam. However, most of the questions focused on DBI and how a project like this was 
able to happen within the department. Supervisors focused on the system manipulations 
by department staff and importantly what they were doing to prevent this from 
happening now and in the future. They also expressed confidence in the interim Director 
Patrick O’Riordan. The Supervisors had some tough questions for the City Attorney’s office 
over the agreement as well. At the end of the hearing, the item was marked, heard and 
filed. This project is scheduled to come to this Commission on September 30th but the 
project sponsors just submitted the plan revision so the hearing will be continued. At the 
full board last week, Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance to require Conditional Use 
Authorization for the Residential Care Facilities passed its first read.  
 
This week at the Land Use Committee hearing, the Committee considered the Landmark 
Designation ordinance for the Making of Fresco, by Diego Rivera, also my background. 
Supervisor Peskin sponsored the legislation. The HPC recommended an approval of the 
Landmark Designation on May 5th, 2021. The Fresco is culturally and historically significant 
as the work of the [inaudible] Mexican artist, Diego Rivera, for association with Art 
Education of the San Francisco Art Institute and the New Deal Era WPA mural program, and 
for association with the LatinX and ChicanoX Arts Community Mission Mural Movement. 
The period of significance is 1931 to 1974. There were two public commentors and the 
item was then forwarded to the full board with a positive recommendation. Next the 
Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would amend the Zoning 
controls in Chinatown, North Beach and Polk Street with the intention of supporting small 
businesses in those districts. The Planning Commission heard this item on August 26th and 
recommended approval with modifications. Those modifications included some technical 
amendments and a recommendation to retain the  3-year abandonment period. There 
were about a dozen callers in support including from the Chinatown Community 
Development Corporation, Chinatown Media and Arts Collaborative and the Community 
Youth Center. Comments stand around support for more flexibility and the Chinatown 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 23, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
mixed use districts and the opportunity for social service and philanthropic facilities to 
exceed the maximum use size with Conditional Use Authorization. Except for the 3-year 
abandonment period the Supervisor included all the Planning Commission’s 
recommended modifications. There is no significant discussion or comments from the 
Committee members. And with the amendments approved, the item was continued one 
week so that the City Attorney’s office could draft the required amendments.  
 
At the full board this week, Supervisor Mandelman’s Residential Care Facilities ordinance 
passed its second read. The Ingleside Terraces Sundial and Sundial Park Landmark 
Designation passed its first read. And finally, the board heard the Conditional Use appeal 
for the Cannabis Retail business located at 5801 Mission Street doing businesses as ReLeaf. 
Commissioners, you heard this case on June 10th of this year and voted four to two to 
approve the project. The appellant had three main concerns in their appeal. First concern 
with clustering of cannabis storefronts in District 11; second, the proposed project is an 
area with a high density of children including the San Francisco Christian Center facility 
well used by school aged children; and three, the lack of appropriate outreach among the 
[inaudible] residents. During staff’s presentation, planner Ryan Balba refuted each of these 
points noting the the closest cannabis retail was over at 3,000 ft away and that the project 
did not run a foul on the 600 buffering requirement for other cannabis retails or schools. 
And that the initial outreach required by the Office of Cannabis was conducted 
appropriately and by the Good Neighbor policies. There were dozens of public 
commentors on this item both for and against the project. The issues discussed were fairly 
like those that this Commission heard at their June 10th hearing. After public comment, 
Supervisor Ronen made a motion to reject the appeal and approve the project as 
proposed. This was seconded by Supervisor Melgar. Next, Supervisor Safai spoke. He 
[inaudible] his commitment to his constituents that he would not support another 
cannabis location in his district and that since he had given his word he could not support 
the project. The clerk then called the vote and Supervisor Ronen’s motion carried 8-3 with 
Supervisors Safai, Chan and Mar in decent. And that concludes my report. Thank you very 
much for your attention and I am available for any questions you might have. 
 
Laura Lynch, Acting Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night but there were no items of interest to the 
Planning Commission to report.  
 
And the Historic Preservation Commission did meet last week as well. There was an 
officer’s election that was held. Commissioner Matsuda was elected as President and 
Commissioner Nageswaran was nominated as Vice President. Additionally, an item of 
interest to the Commission was the Draft EIR Hearing at 1101-1123 Sutter Street where the 
Commission provided comments on the Draft EIR. This item is anticipated to be before this 
body at your next hearing on September 30th.