4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Commissioners. And thank you, I think most of you are signed up to come and 
take a tour of the offices and the Permit Center, so thank you for the words. And thank you 
to, you know, even though we're starting to see more activity here in the office and more 
employees here, there's been a core group who have been coming in throughout the 
pandemic, and just a special thanks to them. A couple of items. We're going to be here 
June 3rd to give you a more detailed briefing on our Islais Creek Station Strategy work. And 
as we’ve been before you before, this is a long range division for the shoreline focused on 
developing a socially and environmentally resilient neighborhood there. We did have two 
community meetings this week on Tuesday and then Wednesday evening. I want to thank 
President Walton who attended the evening meeting and our staff who are leading the 
effort in partnership with the port, SFPUC and SFMTA. And I think overall, again, you'll hear 
more about this in June. The meetings went well and attendees were positive and keen on 
seeing investment in the neighborhood. So, more to come on that. I also wanted to let you 
know that Supervisor Mandelman, yesterday, introduced -- and there was an article in the 
Chronicle about it, his legislation that will allow for up to four residential units on corner 
lots in residentially zoned neighborhoods that currently don't allow for four units. That 
legislation will have to go through Environmental Review. Most likely an addendum to our 
existing Housing Element EIR, probably will be in front of you in three or more months. 
Just wanted to give you that heads up, and that's my report. Thanks. 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
 210287 Planning Code - Temporary Closure of Liquor Stores in Polk Street Neighborhood 
Commercial District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Malone. Item 1 
 
First on the Land Use agenda this week was Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would 
amend the Planning Code to allow existing liquor stores in the Polk Street Neighborhood 
Commercial District (NCD) to temporarily relocate due to a major capital improvement 
project.  
 
Commissioners, you heard this item last week and voted unanimously to recommend 
approval with modifications. Those modifications were in two parts, the first 
recommended the creation of a new temporary use permit for legacy businesses seeking 
to relocate, and the second part included fixes to the ordinance in its current form. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission