4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
 
None. 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Veronica Flores: 
 
Land Use Committee 
• 210352 Initiating Landmark Designation - Diego Rivera Mural “The Allegory of 
California.” Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. 
 
• The Land Use and Transportation Committee heard one item this week related to the 
initiation to Landmark Diego Rivera’s fresco, titled “The Allegory of California.” This was 
painted in 1931 and is located within the grand stairwell at 155 Sansome Street. The 
Committee sent unanimous positive recommendation to the full Board of Supervisors 
for consideration, and there were no public comments for this item. 
 
Full Board 
• 210064 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 1830 Sutter Street (aka Japanese 
YWCA/Issei Women’s Building) Sponsors: Preston; Mandelman, Peskin and Chan. Staff: 
McMillen. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210275 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 2651-2653 Octavia Street Project. APPEAL DENIED 
 
• 210397 Approval of a 90-Day Extension for Planning Commission Review of “Review of 
Large Residence Developments” (File No. 210116). Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. 
ADOPTED 
 
• The Board also heard the appeal of the CatEx that was issued for a project at 2651-2653 
Octavia Street. The subject property is a 3-story, 2-family residence located next to the 
Golden Gate Valley Library, which is a Category A resource and also one of the 7 Carnegie 
libraries in the city. The proposal includes vertical and horizontal additions, and would 
not result in any net new dwellings.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
 
• The Planning Commission heard a DR for this project on February 6, 2020, during which 
time you denied the DR request. The CatEx dated September 5, 2019 was then appealed 
to the BOS. At their July 28, 2020 hearing, the Board overturned the CatEx and directed 
the Planning Department to further analyze the project’s impacts on the indoor light 
levels inside the library’s reading room. The Department conducted additional analysis 
and issued a new CatEx on January 27th, earlier this year. 
 
• The Planning Commission then held another DR hearing on February 4th, during which 
time the 2019 DR request was denied. This additional DR hearing was required because 
the first DR request relied on the 2019 CatEx, which then became void after Board 
overturned that initial CEQA appeal. 
 
• For this second CEQA appeal, the appellant argued that the project would adversely 
impact the indoor light level of the library’s reading room, thus resulting in a significant 
impact under CEQA. The appellant’s primary arguments were that the Department may 
not issue a CatEx when the project may result in an adverse impact and also that the 
Board should apply the fair argument test, not the substantial evidence test. when 
reviewing the Department’s CEQA determination regarding indoor light level as a 
character-defining feature of the library. 
 
• The Department clarified that CEQA does allow for CatEx to be issued for projects that 
have less-than-significant impacts on a historic resource, which was the case here. The 
Department’s determination was based on substantial evidence in the record that the 
daylight level inside the library’s reading room is not a character-defining feature of the 
library. Also of note, indoor light level is not identified as a character-defining feature 
for any of the other Carnegie libraries in San Francisco. 
 
• During the public hearing, members of the public expressed concerns that the project 
would adversely impact the historic character of the library, and also that the project 
would block views from the neighboring properties. Additionally, there was a caller who 
commended Ms. Gibson’s efforts on efficiently performing environmental review. 
 
• Supervisor Stefani opined that the Department correctly determined that the project is 
categorically exempt, and also that the Department adequately addressed the Board's 
direction to analyze the project’s impact on the indoor light level of the library’s reading 
room. 
 
• Supervisor Peskin also posed the question of why the Department issued a CatEx, 
instead of preparing an Initial Study. 
 
• After discussion, the Board ultimately unanimously upheld the second CatEx and 
rejected the appeal. 
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
There were no items of interest to the Planning Commission related to the Board of Appeals. 
The Historic Preservation Commission did briefly meet yesterday to consider one item, that 
is on today's agenda for your consideration as well, and adopted a recommendation for 
approval with staff's modifications related to the Small Business Planning Code amendment.