9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
good afternoon, commissioners. Just a couple of follow-up items. We talked about the 
number of hearings and the limitations under SB 330. We've since made, at your request, 
kind of clarifying language to director's bulletin number seven that calls out the fact that 
independent requests from project sponsors will not count against the hearing limits under 
S.B. 330, and that's our interpretation of the state code, but we've discussed that with the 
city attorney, so we've clarified that in the memo that talks about S.B. 330. And then, you 
also received two memos regarding how project sponsors in the last five years or so have 
satisfied their affordable housing obligations. One is a more general memo that looks at how 
many have satisfied their 415 obligations with on-site first off-site first other options, and 
you'll see that about 70% over the last five years have selected the on-site alternative. So, 
more than the majority of projects. And then, you also asked, as in Commissioner Diamond 
asked, how many projects have come back to the Commission to change, and all of them 
changed from on-site to fee or off-site to fee and there were approximately four projects 
over the last five years that made that selection. So those memos we sent you, and to the 
extent you have questions, please let us know. That's all I have. Thanks. 
 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners and happy 415, today is San Francisco’s 171st birthday.  
 
Land Use Committee 
• Canceled  
 
Full Board  
• 201326 Planning Code - Chinatown Mixed Use Districts. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Merlone. 
PASSED Second Read  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 15, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
• 210064 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 1830 Sutter Street (aka Japanese 
YWCA/Issei Women’s Building) Sponsors: Preston; Mandelman, Peskin and Chan. Staff: 
McMillen Passed First Read  
 
• 210235 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 476 Lombard Street Project. Special Order 3:00 PM, Items 22-25  
 
The Board also heard the appeal of a CatEx that was issued for a project at 476 Lombard 
Street. The subject property is a three-story, single-family residence, and the proposed 
project includes second and third floor horizontal additions along with new roof decks. The 
Department identified the property as an individually significant historic resource under 
Criterion 3 for architecture and issued a Class 1 Categorical Exemption.  
 
The Planning commission heard this project as a Discretionary Review on January 28, 2021, 
and voted to not take DR and approved the project as proposed.  
 
The CEQA appellants disagreed with the Department’s determination that the proposed 
project meets the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation. The appellant 
focused on the proposed infill of the lightwells and removal of windows on the side façade; 
the addition of roof decks; and the removal of an existing roof top structure at the rear. 
 
The appellant’s qualified preservation consultant argued that the alteration of these 
features would result in a substantial adverse change to a historic resource.  
 
The day of the appeal, the Department received new information from the preservation 
expert on behalf of the appellant. As such, the Department requested that the hearing be 
continued to allow the Department time to do further research on the new information. The 
Department was not granted the continuance. 
 
Instead, Supervisor Peskin asked the ERO if the Department was rescinding the Categorical 
Exemption. For this appeal, the Department determined the appropriate course of action 
was to request more time to evaluate the new information and then to determine whether 
to defend or rescind the Categorical Exemption. 
 
Supervisor Peskin also suggested that the Planning Department was not permitted to 
request a continuance; however, that is inaccurate. The Planning Department, like any 
members of the public or any other department, may request a continuance. It need not be 
granted, but we are allowed to ask for one. 
 
On the substance of the appeal, Supervisor Peskin stated that while this appeal was a 
neighborhood dispute, it also has larger implications for North Beach. Peskin agreed with 
the appellant that lightwells and other identified features contribute to the character of 
North Beach.  
 
During public comment, one neighbor had no issue with the project and supported 
upholding the Categorical Exemption, while there was no public comment in support of the 
appeal.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 15, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 14 
 
Supervisor Peskin acknowledged that both his office and the Department had attempted to 
resolve the appellant’s concerns and to come to an agreement prior to the appeal hearing. 
However, in the end he made a motion to uphold the appeal and to reverse the Categorical 
Exemption. This motion passed 10-1, with Supervisor Melgar casting the dissenting vote. 
Staff will await the board’s findings to determine the next steps.  
Finally in honor of our majestic city’s birthday, I’d ask for your indulgence as I close with a 
short poem by Ina Coolbrith, California’s first poet laureate. 
 
Fair on your hills, my City,  
Fair as the Queen of old,  
Supreme in her seven-hilled splendor-  
You, from your Gate of Gold,  
Facing the orient sunburst,  
Swathed in the sunset gleams,  
Throned in an ultimate glory,  
City of mists and of dreams!  
 
Happy Birthday San Francisco. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals met tonight and considered several items that may be of interest to 
the Planning Commission. 
 
1. Executive Director Rosenberg announced that Vice President Eduardo Santacana has 
resigned from the Board of Appeals. As such, the Board is now operating with one 
vacant position. 
 
2. 4840 Mission Street – The Board heard a Rehearing Request for the appeal of a 
demolition permit for this project which was approved under SB-35. The Appellant 
argued that this affordable housing project would result in increased crime and lower 
their property values – resulting in a taking. The Board unanimously denied the 
Rehearing Request. 
 
3. 3627 Divisadero Street – The Board heard an appeal of an alteration permit to allow a 
2-story vertical addition to the subject property. The Planning Commission heard two 
DRs for this project on May 7, 2020 and approved the project as proposed (without DR). 
The Appellant in this matter (one of the DR requestors) did not submit a brief or attend 
the hearing. The Board unanimously denied the appeal and approved the project as 
proposed. 
 
4. 41 Kronquist Court – The Board heard an appeal of an alteration permit to allow decks 
at the rear of the subject property. The Planning Commission heard this as a DR on 
January 30, 2020 and took DR to relocate proposed stairs from the side property line to 
the rear of the building and to add a planter outside the railing for privacy. The Appellant 
in this matter (the DR requestor) argued that the Department did not properly interpret 
the Planning Commission’s decision and that the planter should be larger. The 
Department noted that the proposed planter was the largest that could be 
accommodated in accordance with the Commission’s decision which did not require a 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 15, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 14 
 
reduction in the size of the deck. The Board unanimously denied the appeal and 
approved the project as proposed.