6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
• 210674 Planning Code - Code Corrections Ordinance. Sponsor: Planning Commission. 
Staff: Starr. 
 
 
This week, there was one item on the land use agenda related to planning, which was the 
Planning Commission sponsored Code Correction’s ordinance. This ordinance is intended to 
clean up errors in the Planning Code, such as typographical errors, updating cross-
references, and other non-substantive revisions to clarify or simplify Code language. You 
recommended approval for this ordinance on February 25, 2021.  
 
 
At the land use hearing, Supervisor Preston had concerns about removing a provision that 
disqualified certain project with a history of an Ellis Act Eviction. This provision is being 
removed from the code because the courts ruled that we could not use an Ellis act eviction 
as justification for denying a project. As a tenant’s rights advocate, Preston wanted to make 
sure that it was absolutely necessary to remove the language but had not been able to get 
his questions answered before the hearing. As such, he moved to duplicate the ordinance 
and remove the Ellis Act reference deletion from the main file and continue the duplicated 
ordinance to the call of the chair. These actions received unanimous support by the other 
committee members, and they then voted to forward the amended version to the Full Board 
as a committee report.  
 
 
Full Board 
• 210182 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 2500-2530 18th Street Affordable Housing Special 
Use District. Sponsors: Walton; Ronen and Stefani. Staff: Flores. PASSED second read  
 
• 210284 Administrative, Public Works, and Transportation Codes - Shared Spaces. 
Sponsors: Mayor; Mandelman, Safai, Stefani, Haney and Peskin. Staff Abad. Passed 
Second Read 
 
• 210285 Planning, Business and Tax Regulations, Police Codes - Small Business Recovery 
Act. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr.  
 
 
Also on the docket was the Mayor’s Small Business Recovery Act, which was up for its first 
read at the Board. As you may recall, this item was amended at committee by Supervisor 
Peskin, taking a significant number of the provisions out or the ordinance. One provision 
that was removed was the elimination of 311 notification for principally permitted 
businesses in the Eastern Neighborhood’s Districts. However, this amendment conflicts with 
another provision that was left in the ordinance, which requires principally permitted 

San Francisco Planning Commission