8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you all. Just want to recognize a Planning anniversary of sort. This is a portion of the 
meeting where I'll be doing it. I'm like Willard Scott doing anniversaries and birthdays, but 
this month marks the five-year anniversary of your unanimous adoption of a resolution 
that reformed our Transportation review for CEQA. And if you recall, I think some of you 
were on the Commission and I was. We changed our analysis from a Level of Service or 
LOS, to Vehicle Miles Travelled or VMT. Which looks at the amount in distance of car travel, 
car travel via project.  It was somewhat of a technical change but somewhat revolutionary 
in a sense that kind of more aligned with our Transportation and Environmental policies. 
So, just wanted to recognize that. It was a huge undertaking and something that was 
underway for probably a decade or more. And a ton of our staff and MTA and CTA and City 
Attorney and OEWD staff worked on it and you all adopted it and I think the benefits are 
proven. We were able to streamline the CEQA approvals for safety, transportation safety, 
and mobility projects and housing projects. And while we were the first county to adopt 
VMT, others have followed suit: San Jose, Oakland, LA, and San Diego. So, just wanted to 
recognize that.  
 
I also wanted to recognize and thank Commissioners Hyland and Pearlman who had their 
last hearings at HPC, the Historic Preservation Commissions over the last couple of weeks 
and just thank them for their service and work with the Department over the years. And 
welcome Ruchira Nageswaran, who is the new Commissioner at HPC. The Mayor also 
nominated Cristina Dycus and she's working her way through the Board confirmation 
process. And that's all I have. Thanks. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 4, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. This week, the 
Land Use Committee considered the initiation of the landmark designation for the 
Trocadero Clubhouse which is located in Stern Grove. The Trocadero is an old roadhouse 
down in the Victorian stick or East Lake style and the earliest building in the Parkside 
District. One of the oldest buildings in the southwest portion of the City. The item was 
sponsored by Supervisor Mar and cosponsored by Melgar, Preston, Peskin, and Chan. The 
Committee voted unanimously to send the landmark initiation resolution to the Full Board 
with a positive recommendation.  
 
Next, the Committee considered the zoning map amendment for 118-134 Kissling which is 
sponsored by the Planning Commission. This project would change the zoning of the 
subject lots from RED to REDMX to allow for vehicle stackers which would be used by the 
adjacent automobile repair site. Commissioners, you heard this item way back in October 
of 2018 and voted to recommend approval of the conditional use authorization and the 
rezoning. The conditional use authorization was contingent upon the zoning map change. 
The project was delayed a couple of years because of a CEQA appeal that was ultimately 
withdrawn. At the Land Use hearing, project planner Alex Westhoff gave a presentation on 
the project and the project sponsor answered questions from the Committee. Other than 
that, there was very little discussion on this item and the Committee then voted to forward 
the ordinance to the Full Board with recommendation.  
 
Lastly, the Committee considered a resolution urging the Office of Economic and 
Workforce Development, the Planning Department, the MTA, Public Works, the Fire 
Department and the Recreation and Parks Department to develop a proposal for a 
permanent Shared Space program. This resolution was forwarded to the Full Board with a 
positive recommendation.  
 
At the Full Board this week, the Board considered the tentative map appeal for 424-434 
Francisco Street which is a condominium conversion subdivision of a three-story six-unit 
building into a residential condominium. Commissioners, you considered this item on 
October 1st of last year and ultimately denied the application because the Planning 
Commission was not able to pass the motion approving the application. Staff 
recommended approval of the application, and at the hearing, a motion to approve was 
made by Commissioner Fung and seconded by Commissioner Diamond, however, it failed 
on a 3-3 vote. A motion to continue the item two months also failed. During the appeal 
hearing at the Board, staff made a brief presentation on the history of the case. Various 
attempts to pass the motion, and why it ultimately was disapproved. As the Commission 
was not able to pass resolution, staff had no basis to support or oppose the appeal. There 
was some public comment on this item. Many of the speakers also spoke at the 
Commission hearing. Many of the people who spoke at the Commission hearing also spoke 
during the Board hearing and brought up similar issues and concerns. Once the 
presentations ended by both sides, Supervisor Peskin indicated that he was going move to 
deny the appeal and uphold the disapproval mainly because the condo conversion would 
not help preserve more affordable housing as [inaudible] sell for between 15 and 20 
percent less than condos. These comments are echoed the same way by Commissioner 
Chan at the hearing on October 1st and later endorsed by Commissioners Moore and 
Imperial. He also brought up the issue with some questionable short-term rental activity 
on the site but never fully explained why this should be used as justification to deny the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 4, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
condominium conversion. At the end of his comments, Supervisor Peskin made a motion 
to deny the appeal and uphold the denial. The motion passed unanimously with 
Supervisor Preston recused because of the past work on the case.  
 
And finally, the Board approved all three of Mayor Breed's reappointments or 
appointments to the HPC including Chris Foley, Diane Matsuda, and Ruchira Nageswaran.  
And that is all I have for you today. Thank you. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
On behalf of the Deputy Zoning Administrator, the Board of Appeals did meet yesterday 
evening and considered two items that may be of interest to the Planning Commission. 
  
1812-1816 Green Street - The Board heard a jurisdiction request for an NOV issued by the 
Department on January 26, 2021 for an illegal unit merger and deck on the subject 
property. These violations have existed since 2003 and the Planning Commission denied a 
conditional use authorization in November 2020. The requestor argued that they should 
be given more time to file the required permits but were unable to explain why they didn’t 
file an appeal within the 15-day appeal period. The Board voted unanimously to deny the 
jurisdiction request. 
  
27 17th Avenue – The Board heard an appeal of a building permit to document the 
restoration of a 3-story bay window at 25 17th Avenue. The bay window had been removed 
without benefit of permit and was required by the Planning Commission to be restored on 
the subject building. The bay window straddles the property line between 25 17th Avenue 
and 27 17th Avenue, and this permit was required to document the portion that projects 
onto 27 17th Avenue. The appellant and several public commenters expressed frustration 
with the permit holder and concerns that the work will not comply with the Planning 
Commission’s decision. This permit is consistent with the Commission’s decision on the 
project and required to implement the Commission’s decision so the Board of Appeals 
unanimously denied the appeal and approved the permit as proposed. 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission also met yesterday and welcomed new 
Commissioner Nageswaran. They also adopted recommendations for approval for several 
Legacy Businesses: The San Sun Restaurant on Washington Street, UKO on Hayes Street, 
Yadav Diamonds at 888 Brannan Street, and Central Drug Store on Mission Street.  
 
Finally, they considered the extension request from Rec and Park for the Observation 
Wheel in the Music Concourse in Golden Gate Park, and the Commission unanimously 
extended the temporary installation for an additional four years until March 1, 2025.