8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. A couple of items for you. One, I just wanted to advise 
you that we've had two meetings now with the Equity Council, which is advising us, the 
staff, on implementation of the resolution you passed, as well as our priorities in Equity 
Plan. I've had good conversations that the meetings so far have been more introductory 
and getting to know each other in what we all do, as well as kind of setting priorities where 
the council wants to address. What their priorities are to take on and those are Housing 
and Budget in our work priorities, etc. So, we'll come talk to you more and give you 
briefings as we move forward. Also, I wanted to let you know that July 1 is when we'll 
expand services at the Permit Center at 49 South Van Ness. We'll be eliminating 
appointments with DBI and going back to the open Permit Center that we had pre-Covid. I 
also wanted to let you know that our Current Planning team is meeting with DBI and their 
inspection staff to brief them on issues around and our rules around tantamount to 
demolition. So I want to thank our Planning team for taking that on and kind of bridging 
us and DBI on our various rules around demolition. And then, I just wanted to let you 
know, we don't have any additional information. We've seen a lot on re-opening, but no 
new guidance on when we are able to go back to City Hall for live meetings. We anticipate 
that to be sometime in the fall, but that's subject to change and we'll keep you updated on 
that. And that's all I have. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 10, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
 
This week Shared Spaces was back at the Land Use Committee for its second hearing; 
However, before Shared Spaces came up, I and the rest of the public were treated to an in-
depth and sometimes confusing discussion on the best way to protect gas lines encased in 
concrete.  
 
 
To start the Shared Spaces hearing, the Shared Spaces team gave a follow-up presentation 
focused on answering some of the questions raised at the last hearing. Like last week, this 
week’s hearing also had a significant amount of public comment.  
 
 
Both Supervisor Peskin and Melgar had a list of amendments they wanted to make. For the 
most part they were similar and dealt with ensuring sufficient path of travel past shared 
spacs, signs to notify people on where to file complaints along with any relevant 
information pertaining to required disability access at the Shared Space. 
 
 
Peskin, however, had amendments that would remove Planning from the Shared Spaces 
program and place DPW as the lead agency. His amendments would also prohibit the 
closure of Curbside Shared Spaces to the public overnight, and require one public bench 
per 15 linear feet of Curbside Shared Space.  
 
 
The Committee divided up the amendments based on those that seemed to have universal 
support, and those that did not. The first set of amendments passed unanimously while 
the second set passed, but were not supported by Commissioner Melgar. Chair Melgar 
then continued the item to June 18, a rare Friday Land Use Committee meeting 
necessitated by the Budget process.  
 
 
210486 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 1801 Mission Street Project] 
 
 
 
At the Full Board this week, the Board heard the appeal of a Categorical Exemption issued 
for a proposed café at 1801 Mission. The subject permit would establish a limited 
restaurant use, doing business as The Creamery in a vacant retail space within a newly 
constructed building. The proposal included interior and exterior tenant improvements 
with no physical expansion. 
 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item as a Discretionary Review 3/25/21, and 
approved building permit application with conditions related to language access and 
menu affordability.  
 
 
The appellant’s contended that the project does not qualify for a CPE because it isn’t 
consistent with the objectives and policies of the General Plan and the Mission Area Plan in 
that it does not protect legacy businesses from displacement and gentrification; and that 
the project would result in the displacement of other businesses in the neighborhood. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 10, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
 
 
Staff’s response was that The CEQA standard for a CPEs doesn’t apply because the 
Department issued a Class 1 CatEx, not a CPE; Further, the project would not displace an 
existing business because the retail space is vacant; and finally displacement and 
gentrification are socioeconomic impacts, not physical environmental impacts. 
 
 
Public comment was overwhelmingly for the appeal and against the project. Common 
themes were that the project will displace other businesses and gentrify the 
neighborhood, and that there was no notification of the CEQA determination. The CatEx 
notification was done properly for what it is worth.  
 
 
During discussion of the appeal, Supervisor Ronen asked some question to staff about the 
appropriateness of the CatEx and ultimately determined that CEQA isn’t the right tool for 
addressing the issues of displacement and gentrification. Further, the project is too small 
to result in significant physical environmental impacts. She then made a motion to uphold 
the determination, which passed unanimously.  
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals met last night and considered two items that may be of interest to 
the Planning Commission: 
  
1) 4326 Irving Street – Rehearing request for an appeal of a building permit to allow 
a 4th floor vertical addition to the existing apartment building. The Planning 
Commission considered this as a staff-initiated DR in July 2020 and took DR with 
staff recommendations. Concerned neighbors appealed the permit to the Board of 
Appeals, which upheld the Commission’s decision and denied the appeal on May 
19, 2021. Last night the Board denied the rehearing request and the decision is 
now final. 
 
2) 27 17th Avenue – Two appeals of a building permit for new construction of a single 
family dwelling on the subject property. The Planning Commission considered this 
as a public-initiated DR in July 2019 along with the DR of an alteration permit on 
the adjacent property at 25 17th Avenue. At this hearing, the Planning Commission 
took DR and approved both permits with a requirement that a previously existing 
bay window be restored (the bay had been illegally removed by the property 
owner). One Appellant argued that the Planning Commission did not approve the 
new construction project at the DR hearing. The Department noted that the 
Commission considered both permits at the hearing and issued DR action memos 
for both items and also noted their decision in the minutes of the meeting. The 
other Appellant reached an agreement with the Permit Holder to revise decks at 
the rear of the project and requested that those revised plans be adopted. The 
Board has heard multiple previous appeals on this property and again expressed 
concern and frustration with the Permit Holder’s previous work without permit. 
The Board granted the appeal to adopt the revised plans and added a condition of 
approval requiring that the bay be restored (and the permit receive a CFC) before a 
CFC is issued for the new construction permit.