11. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
12. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 16, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
• 211119 Hearing - Housing Our Workers. Sponsors: Mar; Melgar. Staff: Switzky. 
 
At Land Use this week, the Committee held a hearing, called by Supervisor Mar, titled 
Housing our Workers. The hearing was intended to go over the recently published Jobs 
Housing Fit Report. This is a relatively new report that examines the housing demand related 
to job growth by worker household income, both in terms of actual past growth and 
projected future growth. It also compares it to housing production past and future by 
affordability level.  
 
The Department was represented by Joshua Switzky who presented the report, and Scott 
Edmondson who led the development of the methodology and data analysis. The major 
finding of the report was that housing production in the past decade fell well short of 
meeting growing housing needs across all worker household income levels, which shouldn’t 
be too much of a surprise for anyone.  
 
While the future 20 years was projected to produce a surplus of housing across all income 
levels except Moderate (80-120 AMI), the net cumulative deficit would still be 
approximately 106,000 housing units in total. The report also calculated that it would take 
$20B of local funding to meet the full affordable deficit, though this would be reduced to 
$14.5B if the market rate deficit is met accompanied by its typical inclusionary requirements.  
 
The Department anticipates undertaking the second such report at the end of 2022; 
however, we have recommended to the Board that the reporting period be amended to 
require the report every four years in alignment with the frequency that our region adopts 
new long-range projections.  
 
To that end Michelle Littlefield, the Department's manager of Data & Analytics, presented 
an update on the Department's ongoing efforts to modernize and improve its reporting 
capabilities, especially the significant efforts needed to consolidate and improve data 
collection and consistency across Departments. 
 
There were about a dozen public commentors, mostly expressing appreciation for the report 
and reaffirming the need for the city to continue to build affordable housing to meet the 
needs of our works, many of whom commute hours to get form their homes to their jobs in 
the city .  Supervisors had a lot of question about the methodology and why certain metrics 
were used. The reason for these were mainly because of how the requirements we adopted 
in the Admin Code. At the end of the hearing, the Supervisors continued it to the call of the 
chair. This allows them to continue the conversation at a later date.  
 
 
Full Board 
 
• 210381 Planning Code - Massage Establishment Zoning Controls. Sponsors: Ronen; 
Mandelman. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 16, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
• 210452 Planning Code - Exemption from Neighborhood Notification and Review 
Requirements for Grandfathered Medical Cannabis Dispensaries Converting to Cannabis 
Retail. Sponsor: Mayor Staff: Christensen. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 211271 Urging the San Francisco Planning Director to Amend Director Bulletin No. 6. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Not Staffed. Adopted 
 
This bulleting covers how we implement the state density bonus law, and the resolution 
asks the director to improve the clarity and effectiveness of the State Density Bonus 
application process by amending Director Bulletin No. 6 to require that project sponsors 
submit financial analysis that has been evaluated and confirmed by a qualified third-party 
consultant, as determined by the Planning Department. 
 
• 211274 Findings Related to Conditional Use Authorization - 450-474 O’Farrell Street and 532 
Jones Street. Adopted 
 
• 211275 Findings Related to Conditional Use Authorization - 249 Texas Street. Adopted 
 
• 211278 Findings Reversing the Final Environmental Impact Report Certification - 469 
Stevenson Street Project. Adopted 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and did consider one item that may be of interest 
to the Planning Commission for the project at 17 Reed Street. In April of 2021, you heard a 
discretionary review where the neighbor to the north and the neighbor across the street 
actually came to an agreement with the project sponsor whereby, they just simply 
requested that you adopt the project with the modifications that satisfied both DR 
requestors. The Board of Appeals heard an appeal filed by the neighbors to the south of the 
project. They registered concerns about incorrect installation of story poles and adequate 
neighborhood notification and impacts to light and air and privacy.  The Board found that it 
complied with the code and is consistent with the Residential Design Guidelines and 
therefore voted unanimously to deny the appeal and uphold the issuance of the permit. 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Anastasia Yovanopoulos - Jobs Housing report every year not every 4 years