8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Jonas. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I just wanted to take a moment during 
this meeting to recognize, celebrate, and thank Delvin Washington who is joining us today. 
Who is actually retiring this week. He's retiring tomorrow after 24 years of service with the 
department. Delvin joined in 1997 which may not seem like a long time, but if you look at 
the issues of the day, I think we were deferring blockbusters in the proliferation of video 
stores then so a lot has happened. He soon became team leader and had been leading the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 29, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
Southeast quadrant in the department for many years. And many of you know Delvin from 
his many hours spent here on the Commission. That’s where I got to know him initially as a 
Commissioner. I can say it was great to see a case that Delvin was managing because you 
could expect things to go smoothly. He’s smart, [inaudible]. He's a problem solver. But 
personality-wise too, he made the room brighter. He made the meetings brighter. He's 
always positive. He’s calm, he’s cool. He has an infectious laugh and smile and he’s the same 
way in the office. He's been a great manager and a great mentor to new planners and he's 
mentored extraordinary planners over the years in the department. And so, his personality 
is going to be missed tremendously in the office and we wish him all the best in retirement. 
He's not leaving the Bay Area. He was born and raised in Oakland, where it sounds like he's 
going to stay. He has raised two sons, Nile and Chad. His wife is joining us today of 30 years, 
Lan. He told me in retirement, he's going to ramp up his community-based work and 
advocate also to keep the A’s in Oakland, which I’m supportive of. So, we wish him all the 
best and really thank him for his service to the city, in the department, and I want to turn 
the floor over to Delvin. 
 
 
Delvin Washington: 
Thank you, Rich. Yes, it's been an honor working this last 24 years with San Francisco 
Planning. There's been a lot of growth in the Department. Obviously, we've doubled in size 
since I first got here. The things I could say is it's an excellent group of people. I can see just 
the fact that we have a former staff member that’s on the Planning Commission and a former 
Planning Commissioner that’s on staff. But I have a lot of respect and pride in the 
department. It’s not perfect but we always, we are making moves to make it a more inclusive 
department. We're striving to just make ourselves make it better and I'm very proud of it. 
No, it's been an honor working with San Francisco. I was just a little skinny kid growing up 
in East Oakland, but I just always felt if you keep a good attitude on what you're trying to do, 
you can reach your goals. The things I learned from the department and just how to solve 
problems and those are the things that I’ve looked on for the people that I've been able to 
bring to the Department's family. I'm really proud of the staff I've been able to hire and gone 
on to have a lot of good work with the city. I have nothing but joy and honor and pride that 
I was able to work with this organization. I wish you the best. And you haven't heard the last, 
I am going to still keep in touch with the department and be somewhat a visible face a little 
less visible. This is my wife, Lan, and she actually, ironically, she started the same year I 
started. She had left a private practice to join Kaiser Permanente. She since then, actually 
beat me a year in advance in retirement. And she’s been actually doing volunteer 
inoculations [inaudible]. That was one of the things she started after retirement [inaudible].  
It's been beautiful and I've really enjoyed working with the department and with the City. 
Again, thank you. It's been great.  
 
Lan Washington: 
I will just say, Rich, thanks for your very kind words. And Delvin is very calm and cool under 
pressure and you know very thoughtful in what he does at work and at home. Completely 
different from his wife. So, except he's not a planner at home.  
 
 
Delvin Washington: 
Well she does all the planning.  
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 29, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
Lan Washington: 
That’s not a surprise. He’s enjoyed it. Really, really been a great career for him at the City and 
he’s very proud of who he’s hired and who he works with.  And you know his late nights at 
the Commission have not been unlike my late nights on call. So I just wanted to just thank 
globally the department for giving him that opportunity to do such good work at the longest 
city that he stayed with. And that says a lot, since he worked in a lot of the cities in the Bay 
Area.   
 
 
Delvin Washington: 
I've actually almost circled the bay. 
 
 
President Koppel: 
I want to start by saying, again, thanks for everything, Delvin. First of all, I'm extremely 
jealous. So, enjoy your free time from here on out. This is something I wish we could really 
do in person, you know, just to shake your hand and what not. I think the last time we saw 
each other face-to-face was ex Director Rahaim’s retirement party at the top of the 
Salesforce Tower. At least I have that memory with you. Best wishes. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I had the pleasure of working face-to-face with Delvin over the years, not just in the 
chambers, but also at the Planning Department because there were times when we had 
meetings that required us to be present. The one thing Delvin always did is he very much 
camouflaged his age. He does not look like retirement and he never did even then. And 
while he had all the seniority leading staff and we’re doing great projects, and we worked 
very hard on quite a few of them Delvin, as you recall. He always fooled me thinking he was 
probably 20 years younger and 20 years before retirement. And that he seems to look the 
same from here even in the virtual world. For all of my fellow Commissioners who did not 
have the pleasure of really meeting you three-dimensionally, he is a wonderful person and 
I will greatly miss you. All the best and enjoy that time off. And you are lucky that your wife 
is retired too. Once all this Covid restrictions disappear, the world is yours. All the best. Thank 
you. 
 
 
 
Delvin Washington: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Delvin, it's just really great to at least virtually see you. And you know not actually worked 
with you but worked alongside you and kind of seen your leadership in the department 
while I was there as a staff.  And I just can't agree more with everything everyone said and 
so happy for you. Sad for the department but I know you’re also the type of manager who 
really develops the people who are on your team. And so, while there is definitely no way to 
fill your shoes and the gap of who you are in the department. I'm sure you have left the team 
well equipped to rise to the occasion. And so, I’m just really excited for you and so proud 
that I got to even work alongside you for a very little bit of time. And maybe one of the things 
you can do on your retirement is that teach more public servants how to remain cool and 
calm under pressure. Some best practices on how to do that. You can send me some tips if 
you have them.  
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 29, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
 
Delvin Washington: 
 
I'll do that.  
 
 
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
As someone who used to represent applicants in front of the Commission and I have worked 
with the department in that capacity, I wanted to let you know that I always felt a sense of 
relief when you were brought in to a matter because that meant that we would get your 
unique blend of pragmaticism and wisdom. Looking at the particular issues that were 
represented and I so appreciated that. I just wanted to wish you the best of luck in your next 
phase. 
 
 
Delvin Washington: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
I'll just say, congratulations Delvin. Lan, he's all yours. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon Commissioner’s, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs A quick report 
today.  
 
• 
210286 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Lyon-Martin House, 651 Duncan 
Street. Sponsor: Mandelman, Preston. Staff: LaValley. Item 3  
 
At Land Use this weekend, the Committee heard the Landmark Designation for the Lyon-
Martin House located at 651 Duncan. The Lyon-Martin House is eligible for Landmark status 
because it is associated with persons and events that have made a significant contribution 
to San Francisco history. Specifically, Designation of Lyon-Martin House is associated with 
the history of Development of Homophile organizations in San Francisco, specifically the 
Daughters of Bilitis, the first Lesbian-Rights organization in the United States, and as the 
longtime home of pioneering Lesbian-Rights activists, Phyllis Lyon and Del Martin.  
 
The HPC heard this item on February 17, 2021 and recommended approval.  
 
At the hearing staff and member of the LGBT Historical society presented the Landmark to 
the Committee and answered question. There were three members of the public spoke in 
favor of the landmarking and none that spoke against it. The item was then forwarded to 
the Full Board with Recommendation.  
 
• 
210352 Initiating Landmark Designation - Diego Rivera Mural “The Allegory of 
California.” Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. Adoption, Item 27  
 
And at the Full Board this week, The Supervisors passed a Resolution initiating the Landmark 
Designation for the Diego Rivera Mural “The Allegory of California”, sponsored by Supervisor 
Peskin. This resolution just starts the landmarking process, it still needs to be reviewed by 
the HPC and approve by ordinance. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 29, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 13