6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 14, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. At this week’s 
Land Use Committee, there was rather a long hearing that included an informational 
presentation on the comprehensive Parnassus Heights Plan and the Memorandum of 
Understanding and an accompanying resolution urging the California Regents to consider 
postponing the proposed expansion plan EIR. The hearing on these items went until about 
8:00 pm and the concerns expressed from members of the public were similar to those that 
you heard on this item last week. A hearing was also notable as Supervisor Melgar's first 
meeting as the Chair of the Land Use Committee; the other two members are Peskin and 
Preston. The resolution was intended to allow more time for some of the details of the MOU 
to be worked out. Ultimately the resolution did pass with a unanimous vote. Supervisor 
Melgar stated that she wanted the I's dotted and the T’s crossed in explaining her support 
for the resolution and similar concerns about missing details were expressed by Supervisors 
Peskin and Preston.  
 
Next, the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s resolution to initiate landmark 
designation for the Diego Rivera Murals at the now closed SF Art Institute. There were some 
concern out there that the Institute was planning on selling them to settle some of their 
debts and the landmarking was intended to make sure that the art stays where it is. This 
claim was disputed by representatives of the SF Art Institute during public comment, but 
they did not object to the landmark designation. The initiation resolution was passed 
unanimously.  
 
Finally, the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s Interim Controls resolution that 
would require CU Authorization for expansion of new construction projects, extension or 
new construction projects that did not maximized density in RM, RC and RTO Districts. The 
controls placed a 2,000 square foot CU threshold on units as well. Since these are interim 
controls, they do not come to the Commission for review and comment; however, 
Supervisor Peskin did work with Planning staff on drafting the resolution and edit several of 
our comments and suggestions to the final controls. Public comment on this was interesting 
as it challenged traditional motions of what certain groups support. Members from more 
established neighborhoods group support the controls to maximize density while there was 
considerable objection to the interim controls from those that might classify themselves as 
YIMBYs. One of their main complaint was that the controls added more regulation to 
Planning process and did not contain any carrots on the sticks. Which is a fair point in 
something that the Planning Department is also concerned about, however, these controls 
are temporary and mentioned address in the immediate problem. There will be ample 
opportunity to craft permanent controls that encourage projects we want and not just 
discourage projects we don’t. Interim controls allow for that opportunity. There are also 
species arguments expressed that this was an upzoning and impact the communities like 
the Mission which it is not. Not only are these zoning districts not widespread in the Mission, 
interim controls can only add process to address an immediate concern, it can't up-zone 
properties. After public comment and some technical questions from Chair Melgar and no 
comments from Supervisor Preston, the Committee then voted to forward this item to the 
Full Board as committee report.  
 
At the Full Board this week Supervisor Peskin's resolution to initiate landmark designation 
for 447 Battery Street passed its -- it was adopted. The resolution to initiate designation for 
One Montgomery Street was also adopted. The Interim Controls for the RCR and RTO 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 14, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
Districts were adopted and initiate landmark designation for the Diego Rivera Murals was 
also adopted. And finally, the resolution asking for a delay in the EIR for the Parnassus 
Campus was also adopted. That concludes my report and I am happy to answer any 
questions.  
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Not fast enough with my typing. Just a question for the Parnassus Campus. Do you have any 
insight if this would affect the Regents’ work and their approvals? And then, the subsequent 
MOU that was supposed to be signed or any insight into -- if that will delay that in their 
meeting, in their decision making? 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
I don't think it will. I think that the Regents, from what I read in the paper, aren't delaying 
their meeting, so, it was a nonbinding resolution. And also, the MOU that we are entering in 
is not legally enforceable which is one of the complaints that they had during the hearing.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And just to add on to that too, Commissioner Tanner. The UC Regents are scheduled still to 
vote next week on this, and then, we couldn’t execute the MOU until after they act because 
they need to certify the EIR. 
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
So, is there any sense in what the pathway forward would be? If the Board were to do -- I 
mean I guess – it seems that it may the Board’s actions may or may not impact the Regents 
and may or may not impact the MOU. Is that accurate? 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yes. There’s still an ability, you know, as Aaron Starr said – to dot the I’s and cross T’s on the 
MOU and make some changes, but it doesn’t look as if that resolution is going to change the 
course at the Regents.  
 
Commissioner Tanner: 
Okay. Thank you very much. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Sure.