10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
So welcome back, Commissioners. Just two other items. One, I wanted to give you a quick 
update. The Legislature returned from its summer recess in mid-August, August 17th . These 
dates we gave you before, August 27th is the last day for Fiscal Committees and Legislation 
to be heard. September 3rd is the last day to amend legislation, and September 10th, the last 
day to pass bills.  And then, the Governor has until October 10th to sign bills. And this is 
relevant because there has been activity on both SB 9 and 10, which will have implications 
for us. To remind you, SB 10 gives cities the option of rezoning a parcel to up to 10 units, 
without going through environmental review. That was passed out of the assembly on 
Monday, 41-9. It's going to go back to the Senate, and then, will need the Governor's 
signature. SB 9, which would allow for duplexes and lot splits on single-family zoned lots 
also passed out of the assembly today. So, it's going to go to the Senate and then to the 
Governor's desk. But those are moving, I think they both were amended so we will get more 
information on both those, on the substance of them. And we will provide them to you 
either a memo or we will come back for an informational hearing. And then, on our budget 
and actual financial situation, I just wanted to give you what happened actually last year, 
which the fiscal year ended June 30th. We ended the year with a $12.8 million shortfall which 
is big. You know, it was a shortfall in our fees of over 25% of what we were projecting. So, 
significant and obviously you know, there were unprecedented events with the pandemic. 
We were able to you know, our finance team and budget team did a great job in managing 
that shortfall. So, we were able to reduce our expenditures through not filling vacant 
positions and reducing other expenditures as well as bring in some deferred revenue to 
balance that budget last year. So again, huge lift by our finance team. We're looking at better 
revenues for the upcoming year but still some shortfalls, and as you know, we budgeted less 
than we did, about $3 million last year. And so, we will keep you posted on how things are 
going this year but wanted to give you an update on where we ended last year. And that's 
all I have.  
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There is no report from the Board of Supervisors or the Board of Appeals. The Historic 
Preservation Commission did meet while you were away on break. They met twice. They 
don't take a summer hiatus. They met both on August 4th and August 18th. On August 
4th,they considered and took- they reviewed and commented on 2500 Mariposa Street, that 
is on your agenda later today for the same purpose. But they also delegated minor scopes 
of work to the Planning Department which accelerates the ability to review smaller scopes 
of improvements to properties and expedites those permits. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission