7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:  
So, good afternoon. I wanted to mention that Shared Spaces item so thank you for bringing 
it up Commissioner Diamond. Also, just one other item, I think it came up during General 
Public Comment a week ago or before about our memo that we talked about an analysis of 
the financial feasibility of potential SB 9 related projects. And we had expected to get that 
out earlier, but there has been some back and forth with our consultants on the types of 
projects we wanted them to analyze. So, we will have that to you and to the public as well 
in early January. And that is all I have. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 9, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee 
• 210381 Planning Code - Massage Establishment Zoning Controls. Sponsors: Ronen; 
Mandelman. Staff: V. Flores. 
 
 
This week at land use, the Committee finally passed Supervisor Ronen’ ordinance that 
amends our Massage controls out of committee with a positive recommendation. If you 
recall last week the item was amended to include the PC’s recommended modification, and 
then continue for one week because the amendments were deemed substantive. 
 
Full Board  
• 210810 Planning Code - Business Signs on Awnings and Marquees. Sponsors: 
Stefani; Chan. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210452 Planning Code - Exemption from Neighborhood Notification and Review 
Requirements for Grandfathered Medical Cannabis Dispensaries Converting to 
Cannabis Retail. Sponsor: Mayor Staff: Christensen. Passed First Read.  
 
• 211187 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 3832-18th 
Street. Staff: Jimenez. Continued to January  
 
• 210381 Planning Code - Massage Establishment Zoning Controls. Sponsors: Ronen; 
Mandelman. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and had one item of interest to the Commission. 
Specifically there was an appeal of a Letter of Determination that I had issued regarding the 
project at 88 Bluxome Street. If you recall, the Commission reviewed and approved that 
project in July of 2019. It was a Large Project Authorization for a large office development 
on a key site in Central SoMa. Beyond the office component of the project, it also included 
numerous other components including several community benefits that were called out in 
the Central SoMa plan, including a linear park, a land dedication for affordable housing, and 
a community recreation center with two pools as well as a child care center. If you recall, it 
did also include the replacement of the SF Tennis Club facility within basement levels of that 
project. Subsequent to those approvals, it was well reported that Pinterest signed on to be 
anchor tenant and then eventually pulled out from that. Subsequent to that, there was also 
reporting that the developer, Alexandria, were going to use the provision in the private 
agreement that they had signed with the San Franciscans for Sports and Recreation 
regarding the replacement of the tennis facility to remove the tennis facility from the project 
and present a payment to that organization in lieu. The question arose as to whether or not 
that change to the project was a significant modification that would require new Large 
Project Authorization approval from the Planning Commission. And that was the request for 
determination from that organization. I issued that determination earlier this year finding 
that it was not a significant modification that required the Planning Commission to approve 
a new Large Project Authorization, but that it was substantial enough that we would require 
an informational presentation to the Planning Commission prior to those permits to revise 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 9, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
the project being issued. So that was the matter that was heard last night. There were I 
believe more than 100 supporters of the tennis facility online. I'm not sure how many of 
them actually spoke but it was substantial. The Board members all kind of acknowledged 
that it was a challenging decision and also somewhat unique and unusual in terms of the 
types of changes we see for projects between entitlement and permit. But ultimately, they 
did vote unanimously to overturn that determination and they ruled that in order to remove 
the tenant facility from the project, it would require a new Large Project Authorization from 
the Planning Commission. And I'm available for any questions you may have about that case. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to ask Mr. Teague to give us one or two more points about exactly for the 
reasoning of why the Board of Appeals held that way. I considered a change on land use, I 
considered a reduction in community benefit over a semi private facility. I’m just curious to 
get a slightly more subtle understanding of why they revoked it.  
 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Sure. Just for a little context, the standard condition that we have in Planning Commission 
motions on this issue against that states significant modification require a new approval 
from the Planning Commission but that the Zoning Administrator couldn’t approve other 
modifications. It doesn’t provide really any other guidance as to what is a significant 
modification, and there is no real guidance within the Planning code on that either. So it is 
a somewhat subjective determination although we do try to use common metrics and 
principles and concepts when reviewing these situations because it's common that projects 
change, to some degree, between entitlement and permitting. Although it's usually fairly 
minor. My determination, I looked at the specific findings that were made in the condition 
of approval -- or the motion of approval and the fact that the other community benefits were 
conditioned in the motion and the tennis club replacement was not conditioned in the 
motion. And the fact that the tennis facility was completely below grade at the basement 
level, and so it would have no kind of exterior impact to the project. And because of the 
layout removing it also would not have impact to any of the other uses or benefits in the 
project. The Board of Appeals felt like the overall area that it represented, which was a little 
more than 11% of the total area of the project was high. And also felt that the nature in 
which the replacement had been presented as a key component of the project when it was 
presented to the Planning Commission, so the way it was represented, and also the 
significance of the facility itself, there was a lot of discussion about the fact that even though 
it is operated as a private, it's still open to anyone to join for a membership and they do a lot 
of other kind of programs. And it is the only indoor -- or was the only indoor tennis facility 
in the City. And so there was some additional conversation about that being a worthy 
consideration for how significant this replacement facility was to the project overall. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you. That was extremely helpful for me to get a broader perspective. Thank you so 
much.