5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
• 210497 Planning Code and Zoning Map - Delete Life Science and Medical Special Use 
District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Shaw. 
 
The first time at Land Use Committee this week was the Planning Code and Zoning Map 
change sponsored by Supervisor Walton that would delete Life Science and Medical Special 
Use District. Commissioners, you heard this item on July 22 this year and voted to approve 
with modifications. The proposed modification was to also eliminate the "Industrial 
Protection Zone Special Use District," and include a grandparenting clause. 
 
The Supervisor did not include the Commission’s recommendation but did indicate that he 
planned to introduce separate legislation to address that issue. 
 
There was one public comment, but the comments related to the IPZ controls. There were 
no other comments from the public or Committee. The Supervisors then voted to forward 
the item to the full board with recommendation. 
 
• 210699 Planning, Administrative Codes - Accessory Dwelling Units. Sponsors: 
Mandelman; Ronen, Preston and Melgar. Staff: V. Flores. Item 3 
 
Next the committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance on ADUs, which would 
enhance existing tenant protections through a new written declaration to the Rent Board. 
This declaration would include a description of housing services that are located where the 
ADU(s) are proposed; and whether ADU construction would result in severance, reduction, 
or removal of housing services. 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on September 9th and recommend approval of 
the Ordinance. 
 
At the land use hearing, there were seven public commentors, all in support, mostly 
discussing the need to protect housing services and existing tenants’ rights. 
 
Supervisor Preston emphasized that this Ordinance does not change the law, but rather 
clarifies that removing housing services for an ADU is not just cause. It does change Planning 
Department process though, as we now must wait for the declaration on housing services 
from Rent Board before we could approve an ADU. Currently we rely on a Screening Form 
from DBI filled out by the owner. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission