4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you, Commissioners. And thank you, I think most of you are signed up to come and 
take a tour of the offices and the Permit Center, so thank you for the words. And thank you 
to, you know, even though we're starting to see more activity here in the office and more 
employees here, there's been a core group who have been coming in throughout the 
pandemic, and just a special thanks to them. A couple of items. We're going to be here 
June 3rd to give you a more detailed briefing on our Islais Creek Station Strategy work. And 
as we’ve been before you before, this is a long range division for the shoreline focused on 
developing a socially and environmentally resilient neighborhood there. We did have two 
community meetings this week on Tuesday and then Wednesday evening. I want to thank 
President Walton who attended the evening meeting and our staff who are leading the 
effort in partnership with the port, SFPUC and SFMTA. And I think overall, again, you'll hear 
more about this in June. The meetings went well and attendees were positive and keen on 
seeing investment in the neighborhood. So, more to come on that. I also wanted to let you 
know that Supervisor Mandelman, yesterday, introduced -- and there was an article in the 
Chronicle about it, his legislation that will allow for up to four residential units on corner 
lots in residentially zoned neighborhoods that currently don't allow for four units. That 
legislation will have to go through Environmental Review. Most likely an addendum to our 
existing Housing Element EIR, probably will be in front of you in three or more months. 
Just wanted to give you that heads up, and that's my report. Thanks. 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
 210287 Planning Code - Temporary Closure of Liquor Stores in Polk Street Neighborhood 
Commercial District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Malone. Item 1 
 
First on the Land Use agenda this week was Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would 
amend the Planning Code to allow existing liquor stores in the Polk Street Neighborhood 
Commercial District (NCD) to temporarily relocate due to a major capital improvement 
project.  
 
Commissioners, you heard this item last week and voted unanimously to recommend 
approval with modifications. Those modifications were in two parts, the first 
recommended the creation of a new temporary use permit for legacy businesses seeking 
to relocate, and the second part included fixes to the ordinance in its current form. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 20, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 8 
 
At the Land Use Committee, Supervisor Peskin recommended that due to the tight 
timeline for the Jug Shop, the Ordinance be duplicated. One file would move forward to 
the Full Board as currently proposed, and the duplicated file would remain in Committee. 
This duplicated file will serve to incorporate the Planning Commission's Temporary Use 
permit recommendation. The item was unanimously then sent to the Full Board as a 
committee report.  
 
 201284 Administrative Code - CEQA Appeals. Sponsors: Mayor; Haney. Staff: Flores. Item 3 
 
Next on the agenda was The Mayor and Supervisor Haney’s ordinance that would allow 
certain projects to proceed while a CEQA appeal is pending before the Board of 
Supervisors. The criterion is as follows: 
 
1) Related to safety/health measures necessary to protect the public, public 
employees, or public property  
 
2) A temporary activity lasting no more than 180 days   
 
3) A reversible action that does not involve physical construction activities or is 
limited to additions that can be easily removed without damaging the site  
 
The Ordinance also amends the appeal filing requirements for public projects sponsored or 
approved by the San Francisco MTA or for properties under leases from the Port 
Commission. Appeals on such projects would now require 50 San Francisco residents or 
five Supervisors to subscribe to the notice of appeal. 
 
Commissioners, you heard this item on February 25th and unanimously recommended 
approval of said Ordinance. 
During the hearing, Supervisor Haney was present as one of the sponsors, and introduced 
non-substantive changes regarding the appeal signature verification process. 
 
Supervisor Peskin quickly stated his opposition to the ordinance, saying that appeals are a 
minor fraction of the total number of CEQA determinations that are made, and that is a 
solution in search of a problem. Supervisor Preston also concurred Supervisor Peskin, 
reiterating the infrequency of these appeals. He also expressed concerns that 
environmental groups are not in support of this Ordinance.  
 
I would note that one of those environmental groups is the Sierra Club’s SF Bay Area 
Chapter, which in the past has opposed high density infill housing in San Francisco. 
 
Chair Melgar expressed her support for the Ordinance because it is very narrow in scope 
and still maintains in all cases the right to appeal. 
 
During public comment, there were over 30 callers with a 2-1 split in favor of the 
ordinance.  
 
After public comment, Supervisor Peskin made a Motion to table the Ordinance. The 
Motion passed 2-1 with Melgar in dissent. The ordinance is not completely dead yet, it 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 20, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
could be called back again or sent to the Board if enough Supervisors signs on, but it does 
seem unlikely for that to happen. 
 
Full Board 
 210287 Planning Code - Temporary Closure of Liquor Stores in Polk Street Neighborhood 
Commercial District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Malone. Passed First Read 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered several items that would be of 
interest to the Planning Commission: 
 
1) Planning Department staff (Esmeralda Jardines and Kate Conner) provided an 
informational presentation on the Planning Department’s implementation of SB-35. 
The Board requested this presentation after hearing their first appeal of a project 
approved under SB-35. 
 
2) The Board adopted a resolution encouraging the establishment of notice requirements 
to all tenants of a residential building in which ADUs are added. The Board adopted a 
similar resolution in 2019 in response to appeals from tenants with concerns about 
impacts of ADU projects on tenant services.  
 
3) 4326 Irving Street- Appeal of a building permit application for a fourth floor vertical 
addition and expansion of three dwelling units. The Appellant’s raised a variety of 
concerns related to the proposed addition, which was before the Planning 
Commission as a Staff-Initiated DR on July 9, 2020. At that hearing, the Planning 
Commission voted unanimously to take DR and adopt staff recommendations to 
reduce the size of the fourth floor addition. The Board voted unanimously to deny the 
appeal and approve the project as proposed (in compliance with the Planning 
Commission’s DR decision). 
 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and considered a couple of 
items by the Architectural Review Committee. First being the conversion of the I. 
Magnin building on Geary Street to a mixed use including residential units. And 
secondly, they considered an art installation to install illuminated letters on the frieze 
of the Spreckels Temple of Music band shell. And when the full Commission met, they 
adopted recommendations for approval for several Legacy Business Registry 
applications. The first being ABS Seafood on Pier 45, The House of Flowers on Geary 
Boulevard, Sue Fisher King Co. on Sacramento Street, The Italian American Social Club 
on Russia Avenue, Sam’s Burgers on Broadway, and Rainbow Grocery on Folsom 
Street. Finally Commissioners, they adopted a recommendation for approval for the 
San Francisco Eagle Bar to become a San Francisco landmark.