6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And just on that topic as well, those forums were recorded so are available through our 
website to view for those that may have missed and want to check them out. Just one item 
today, I invited Corey Teague here. He had sent you a couple of correspondences over the 
last two weeks. So, I just wanted him to give a quick update on those. One was a Letter of 
Determination that talked about COVID-related entitlement extensions and the other was, 
were a series of interpretations, most notably about rooms down in kitchen definitions. So, 
Corey. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Sure. Thank you. Good afternoon, President Koppel and Commissioners. I just wanted to 
briefly acknowledge those two documents that I issued in the last couple of weeks. The 
Commissioners were copied on both of those so you should have received them. They both 
are interest to the Commission. As Director Hillis mentioned the first from last week was 
related specifically to language and Planning Commission motions and also in various 
decision letters issued by the ZA that allows the ZA to grant extensions to performance 
periods for approvals if there's been appeal, litigation or delay by government agency. And 
so, that left it to basically determine that the Shelter in Place order that took effect in 
March 17th of last year, in combination with all the other local and state orders constituted 
a government delay to the ability to, for many projects to be able to adequately move 
forward. And essentially, stated that the period of time the overlap between that past year 
and the performance period would be extended for that same amount of time.  
 
The second document you were copied on was issued this past Monday. If you remember 
back in October, you considered and made recommendations on an ordinance to amend 
the Planning Code to address state ADU law. And at that time I came before you and let 
you know that I was working on a fairly large set of interpretations. It is kind of a hodge 
podge that includes a lot of different types of updates to interpretations but most notable 
being what Director Hillis mentioned which was repealing rooms down, but then also, 
creating a more clear definition of a kitchen which is not currently defined in the Planning 
Code or the Building Code, but is kind of necessary as we implement the code in terms of 
what is a dwelling unit and what's not a dwelling unit. So, again, that had a lot of different 
interpretations, and some are very minor and technical, but I wanted to acknowledge both 
of those documents and just let you know if you have any questions, of course, we can go 
into get in touch by phone or however to discuss any questions that you might have. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 25, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 10 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Thank you, I think that's all we have if there's no questions. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
This week the Land Use Committee held a hearing on and considered a resolution 
extending the Interim Controls that required conditional use authorization to change the 
use of a residential care facility to any other use. Commissioners, these controls have been 
in effect since October of 2019 and are set to expire in April. The extension resolution 
would extend controls for an additional six months, the maximum time allowed for interim 
controls. During the hearing, staff presented the findings of the report and submitted to 
the clerk, which basically can be summed up as it's too soon to tell. As you know, you had 
your first CU for the removal of the residential care facility earlier this month and approved 
the CU. There is also one CU pending which has been continued a few times by this 
Commission. Other than that, the City has added beds to existing residential care facilities 
and has approved two new residential care facilities while the Interim Controls had been in 
effect. During the hearing Supervisor Melgar questions this Commission's decision to 
approve the CU to convert the residential care facility to a single-family residence given 
that this is a priority of the Board.  Supervisor Peskin also expressed similar concerns and 
felt necessary to clarify how Supervisor Melgar would have voted if she is on the 
Commission. I think the message I got from this hearing is that they would have preferred 
the Planning Commission to have pushed back on the conversion more and questioned 
whether or not another operator could have taken over the space. I will note that this 
residential care facility in question went out of business prior to the Interim Controls going 
into effect. At the end of the hearing, supervisors made a motion to file the hearing and 
amend the resolution with some clarifying changes, because these changes were deemed 
substantive, the resolution had to be continued until next week's hearing but will likely 
pass.  
 
Next the Committee considered the Mayor's ordinance that would prohibit retail work 
spaces in the Chinatown Mixed Use District. Commissioners, you heard this item on 
February 18th and unanimously recommended approval of the ordinance. During the 
hearing, Supervisor Peskin requested to be added as a co-sponsor. But other than that, 
there were no comments from the Committee members or members of the public. The 
Committee then voted to forward the item to the Full Board with a positive 
recommendation.  
 
At the Full Board this week, the ordinances to enable 542 Howard Street, also known as 
Parcel F, passed its second read. And the ordinance sponsored by this Commission to have 
technical corrections to the Central SoMa area zoning provision passed its first read.  
 
Lastly, the Board took up the conditional use authorization appeal for the wireless 
telecommunication facilities at 590 Second Avenue. The project includes 10 antennas and 
related equipment screen and two new rooftop enclosures. Commissioners, this item was 
continued by you several times but was ultimately approved unanimously by this 
Commission in January of this year. The appellant's concerns were mainly aesthetic as it 
would create two visible stair like penthouse structures on the subject building and slightly 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 25, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
shade the adjacent building’s second floor deck. The appellant was also concerned about 
health-related issues as well. There were many public commenters in favor of the appeal. 
Several citing health and aesthetic concerns, and also a fair number saying they were 
concerned over the loss of their property values. They are a remarkable claim for any San 
Francisco homeowner right now. There were no speakers in favor of the project and 
against the appeal. At the beginning of the hearing, Supervisor Chan indicated that she 
would like the hearing to go forward, however she likely would continue the decision on 
the appeal to a later date. [inaudible] after hearing the public comment she made a 
motion to accept the appeal and deny the project. Supervisors spoke directly after her in 
order to add just a friendly findings to her motion. This included 1) that the applicant had 
not sufficiently demonstrated the need for additional coverage and that the gaps in 
coverage have not been independently verified; and 2) the project did not meet the 
findings in Section 303 which state that such uses will not be injurious to property 
improvements or potential developments in the city. Vote to deny the project and take the 
appeal was unanimous. And that concludes my report for today. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals met last night and considered two items that may be of interest to 
the Planning Commission. 
 
1. 4840 Mission Street – Appeal of a building permit to demolish the Valente Marini 
Perata & Co. funeral home as part of a project to construct 157 affordable dwelling 
units as part of a project under SB-35. The new construction permit for this project was 
issued last summer and was not timely appealed to the Board of Appeals. The appeal 
of this demolition permit was the first appeal related to an SB-35 project and the 
Appellant’s arguments focused on concerns related to potential impacts on their 
homes from construction. The Board found that the permit was properly issued and 
voted unanimously to deny the appeal.  
 
2. 530 Howard Street – Appeal of the Planning Department’s denial of a permit to 
remove and replace a General Advertising sign at the subject property. Per Planning 
Code Section 604(h), a General Advertising sign cannot be removed and replaced. The 
Appellant argued that the language in this section wasn’t clear and that past Board of 
Appeals decisions allow for the removal and replacement of such signs. The Board 
found that the language of Section 604(h) is clear and unambiguous and voted 
unanimously to deny the appeal.