6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. I just want to briefly touch on some organizational shifts 
within the department. And I apologize I think they were mentioned last week during 
public comment for not bringing these to you earlier. I don’t view them as enormous or a 
huge changes. Staff generally stay in the same roles and their functions aren’t changed. 
And hopefully the biggest impact will be increased collaboration and consistency within 
the department and to facilitate the complicated job of our planners in increasingly 
complicated regulatory environment, things like SB9 and 10 that we just mentioned. So, 
two components to it, one merging Zoning and Compliance into Current Planning. The 
role of the Zoning Administrator, and Corey in this case remain exactly the same, the ZA 
and their duties, including Enforcement, Short-Term Rentals, TDM, the Zoning 
Administrator’s authority and the code and charter to opine on variances, code 
interpretations and issue LODs remains unchanged. Also, Kate Connor and her team who 
were formally under Dan Sider's shop, the Office of Executive Programs also merged under 
Current Planning. And you're obviously familiar with Kate and her work around the State 
Density Bonus, other state laws like SB35 and 330, BMRs, our liaison to the Rent Board, etc. 
So I know you share the great respect and admiration I have for both those functions 
because they're playing an ever important and complicated role in our analysis of projects. 
So that the notion is that they continue and actually be enhanced. But, again, the goal of 
this is to make the jobs of those who are managing project review easier with issues 
around Zoning, State Density Bonus, and other state laws, historic design. I wanted the 
folks making decisions and looking at projects housed in one division. I also think it is an 
opportunity to expand the knowledge of these issues for planners and ultimately more 
opportunities for advancement within the department. So, I just wanted to highlight this 
and as always kind of no change, no matter how minor I may think it is, doesn’t go without 
some scrutiny. So, Supervisor Peskin has asked for a hearing on these changes, which I'm 
happy to go and explain to them into the board and others about it. Supervisor Peskin, to 
my knowledge, didn't call me or Liz or Corey about this change prior to calling for the 
hearing but happy to go talk to them at that -- at a hearing of the board. I also wanted to 
mention some staff promotions within Current Planning. So, Natalia Kwiatkowska, who 
you have seen here and encountered, especially on issues of ADUs, becomes a Flex team 
leader and she was in that acting role previous to this. Sylvia Jimenez is our new Southwest 
team leader taking over for Delvin who retired earlier, and Rich Sucre was promoted to fill 
Liz Watty’s vacant position as Deputy Director of Current Planning. So, I wanted to make 
note of those changes too, I’m happy to answer questions if you have them. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission