6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. I don’t have any announcements but Liz wanted to 
update you on some staffing updates in Current Planning. 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Thank you. Hi. Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning. Just wanted to come today and 
share some staffing updates in Current Planning as well as some other changes to our 
Development Review functions. First up, I’m happy to announce that we have concluded 
our hiring round for new Managers, which does not happen all that often in government 
and happy to announce that we have made two of our temporary managers permanent 
being, Natalia Kwiatkowska and Sylvia Jimenez, on our Development Review teams. And 
have promoted three new managers being, Nick Foster who is here with us today, Ella 
Samonsky, both of them on Development Review teams, as well as Kelly Wong to run our 
Enforcement program. Now that we have a full and stable management team, we are also 
changing our Development Review team structure. We wanted to let you all know about 
this since you might start seeing different planners and different managers coming before 
you in capacities that they maybe haven’t in the past. We will be effectuating these 
changes November 1. And I have passed out a graphic that I think Commission Secretary’s 
office also has queued up to show on the slide but to just show this change graphically. In 
short, we are moving from our 4-quadrant team structure where we had 4 quadrant teams 
that were geographically based that aligned with supervisorial districts, pre-redistricting. 
We also had a few ancillary teams in Current Planning such as the Flex team that focused 
on ADUs, things of that nature, and we are now shifting instead to just 7 Development 
Review teams that are all geographically based and they all align with the new boundaries 
of the Board of Supervisor districts in the post redistricting configuration. Just for the 
public to know, I’m sure applicants are probably curious, but all planners are going to keep 
their current workloads. This is just about moving forward and the projects that they will 
take on as they have the capacity to do so in the future. So anyhow, in short, we are excited 
about this change and hopeful that the new structure will give us really that critical 
foundation to make process improvements in the future. We certainly are preparing for 
post-housing element adoption. The implementation phase will certainly hit Current 
Planning the hardest here. We going to need to make some changes and so this is really 
the personnel changes and structure that we think are really necessary to set us up for 
being nimble in the future. And I think, really importantly, internally at least really 
reducing those managers to direct report ratios that were way too high for us to be able to 
adequately support, train and mentor our staff. So, all of those things just lead to an 
exciting change in Current Planning. Again, I don't think most people in the public or on 
this Commission will notice any change, but just wanted to be transparent that we are 
shifting some of those team changes anyhow.   
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission