5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Commissioner Moore, we will look into that and get back 
to you on it. Just two items. One, I wanted to highlight an item that is in your packet 
memo. Earlier in December, we had an informational presentation on the Climate Action 
Plan and the Community Safety Element. The Climate Action Plan was released in 
December of 2021 by the Department of Environment and we are updating the 
Community Safety Element as part of our General Planned Updates. But during that 
hearing you asked several questions and asked for clarification on certain items, so we've 
included a memo in your packet that responds to those questions and provides additional 
resources and links in following up to some of the questions. And just FYI, we hope to be 
back to the Commission in May 2022 to introduce those related General Plan amendments. 
And then we're before you in two weeks also with an informational item on the Housing 
Element and I just wanted to give a callout to those on our staff led by the Community 
Equity team but also Environmental Planning team who have been working diligently to 
prep for that hearing. You'll get a packet of information by the end of this week in 
preparation of that hearing in two weeks. And that's all I have. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Audrey Merlone: 
 
At Land Use Committee this week the Board heard two items of interest. The first was the 
landmark designation of Casa Sanchez at 2778 24th Street. The Historic Preservation 
Commission initiated this landmark designation on 1/20/21 and recommended approval 
10/6/21. 
 
 
The Casa Sanchez Building is significant for its association with the development of San 
Francisco’s Latino business community during the 20th century. A multi-generational 
family-owned and -operated company, Casa Sanchez was founded by Roberto and Isabel 
Sanchez in 1924 with a popular “Mexicatessen” that sold a variety of prepared Mexican 
foods and was the first mechanized tortilla factory in the city. The Casa Sanchez company is 
the longest-operating tamale and tortilla factory in San Francisco and 2778 24th Street is 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 13, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 7 
 
representative of the family business that dates to 1924 and development of the larger 
Latino business community, particularly that of the Mission District, in the 20th century. 
 
 
The landmark designation is sponsored by Supervisor Ronen, and at Committee, 
Supervisors Melgar, Peskin, and Preston signed on as co-sponsors before sending it on to 
the full Board with a positive recommendation. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Board of Appeals met last night and considered one case of interest to the Planning 
Commission. The Board considered an appeal of the variance denial for the project at 4300 
17th Street, which proposed to subdivide the existing lot, resulting in two substandard 
lots, and then develop the new vacant lot with a 2-unit building, resulting in nearly full lot 
coverage of the existing lot. This project’s Conditional Use Authorization was considered 
by the Commission first in 2020, and then again in November 2021, where the Planning 
Commission voted to deny the CU. On December 9, 2021, the Zoning Administrator issued 
a Variance Decision Letter denying the proposed lot area and rear yard variances, 
determining the proposal did not meet any of the 5 required findings for a variance.  
 
 
At the appeal hearing, the project sponsor focused on housing policy issues and a review 
of other lot-split variances over the past 20 years. However, the Board agreed with the 
Zoning Administrator that variances must focus on the subject lot and specific proposal 
and are not the appropriate mechanism to apply new policy for the City. As such, the Board 
focused on the 5 required findings for a variance. The Board found that the project did not 
meet those findings and voted unanimously to uphold the Zoning Administrator’s denial 
of the proposed variance.