6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. I don’t have any announcements but Liz wanted to 
update you on some staffing updates in Current Planning. 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Thank you. Hi. Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning. Just wanted to come today and 
share some staffing updates in Current Planning as well as some other changes to our 
Development Review functions. First up, I’m happy to announce that we have concluded 
our hiring round for new Managers, which does not happen all that often in government 
and happy to announce that we have made two of our temporary managers permanent 
being, Natalia Kwiatkowska and Sylvia Jimenez, on our Development Review teams. And 
have promoted three new managers being, Nick Foster who is here with us today, Ella 
Samonsky, both of them on Development Review teams, as well as Kelly Wong to run our 
Enforcement program. Now that we have a full and stable management team, we are also 
changing our Development Review team structure. We wanted to let you all know about 
this since you might start seeing different planners and different managers coming before 
you in capacities that they maybe haven’t in the past. We will be effectuating these 
changes November 1. And I have passed out a graphic that I think Commission Secretary’s 
office also has queued up to show on the slide but to just show this change graphically. In 
short, we are moving from our 4-quadrant team structure where we had 4 quadrant teams 
that were geographically based that aligned with supervisorial districts, pre-redistricting. 
We also had a few ancillary teams in Current Planning such as the Flex team that focused 
on ADUs, things of that nature, and we are now shifting instead to just 7 Development 
Review teams that are all geographically based and they all align with the new boundaries 
of the Board of Supervisor districts in the post redistricting configuration. Just for the 
public to know, I’m sure applicants are probably curious, but all planners are going to keep 
their current workloads. This is just about moving forward and the projects that they will 
take on as they have the capacity to do so in the future. So anyhow, in short, we are excited 
about this change and hopeful that the new structure will give us really that critical 
foundation to make process improvements in the future. We certainly are preparing for 
post-housing element adoption. The implementation phase will certainly hit Current 
Planning the hardest here. We going to need to make some changes and so this is really 
the personnel changes and structure that we think are really necessary to set us up for 
being nimble in the future. And I think, really importantly, internally at least really 
reducing those managers to direct report ratios that were way too high for us to be able to 
adequately support, train and mentor our staff. So, all of those things just lead to an 
exciting change in Current Planning. Again, I don't think most people in the public or on 
this Commission will notice any change, but just wanted to be transparent that we are 
shifting some of those team changes anyhow.   
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 20, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
President Tanner: 
Great. Thank you, Ms. Watty. I just want to say congratulations to those who were 
promoted. It is great to see so many folks who are being retained and able to grow their 
careers in the organization. I think that speaks very well of the Department. So, 
congratulations to those recent promotions, Nick and to others as well. We’ll look forward 
to seeing folks here in the chamber as we go forward. 
 
7. 
Housing Element Schedule Update 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Maia Small – Staff presentation 
- Georgia Schuttish – See October 12th email to Commission on Flat Policy 
codification. September 8th List of approved Alteration from the past 8 
years, Should be considered as Demolitions. 80% resold, average price 
increase over $4 million+ after CFC. Demo Calcs loophole. Section 317 (b) 
(7) loophole. Many projects on List sold entitlements before work began. 
Currently seven Noe Valley entitled projects for sale, some multi-units, 
two using Section 317 Demo Calcs. Before Christmas 2021, approved 
former Board and Care on Shotwell Street into private residence…its 
entitlement now for sale. Two upcoming CUAs due to Enforcement: 
Tantamount to Demolition (de facto Demolition). Entitlements sold. 
Another upcoming Alteration project scheduled called: “An Effective 
Demolition”. What does that mean? Problem isn’t Section 317. Problem is 
never implemented as intended. See Findings. Once Housing Element 
passed: 1-3 years to upzone. Existing housing will need protection from 
increase in speculation during that time. 
 
 
- Patricia Boyd – Not informed, ignored issues brought forward, do better 
- Francisco DaCosta – HE only focuses on market rate housing, address 
affordable housing 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
= Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney - Response to comments and 
questions 
= Miriam Chion – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
RECUSED: 
Braun, Ruiz 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
No Planning Department Items. 
 
Full Board  
 
• 220041 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Production, Distribution, and Repair Uses] 
Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Shaw. PASSED Second Read  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 20, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 8 
 
• 210866 Planning, Administrative, Subdivision Codes – Density Exception in Residential 
Districts. Sponsors: Mandelman; Melgar. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read! 
 
This density bonus ordinance that passed the Board includes: 
 
 Allowing up to 4 units on interior lots and 6 units on corner RH lots; 
 
 30% rear yard for density exception projects; 
 
 A 3 years post construction “intent to occupy” requirement in order to receive a 
fee waiver for a Historic Resource Evaluation, or to be able to condo the new units 
when an existing building is retained; 
 
 A requirement that no unit to be less than 1/3 the size of the largest unit OR to 
provide at least one unit with 2+ bedrooms 
 
 Directing Planning to look at developing Objective residential design standards 
 
 Requiring rent control for bonus units 
 
 Requiring ownership of the property for at least 1 year prior to application 220914 
General Plan Amendments - Transbay Block 4 Redevelopment Project. Sponsor: 
Planning Commission. Staff: Snyder. Failed First Read. 
 
 
If you recall this is a strategic denial of the General Plan Amendment, not based on the 
substance. OCII indicated that they needed more time to negotiate with the Project 
Sponsor due to changing financial circumstances. Renegotiating the project tied to this 
GPA would require taking the project back to the OCII’s Commission; however, per the 
Planning Code, GPA must be acted on by the Board within 90 days of transmittal, or they 
are deemed approved. Because the negotiations between the project sponsor and OCII 
were going to take longer than 90-days, the Board was forced in a way to deny the GPA. 
This was done with the understanding that staff would ask this Commission to re-initiate 
and re-approve the GPA when the rest of the Block 4 project was ready for Board action. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
There is no report for the Board of Appeals but the Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday and considered several Legacy Business Registry applications that might 
interest you. They adopted resolutions recommending approval for the Black and Blue 
Tattoo at 381 Guerrero Street, the New Royal Bakery at 4773 Mission Street, and the New 
Lun Ting Café at 670 Jackson Street. However, they considered but adopted a motion to 
continue The Condor at 560 Broadway, requesting additional information.