9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None.  
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
 
At this week’s land use hearing, the Committee considered two landmark designations one 
for the building at One Montgomery and the other for the Diego Rivera mural Allegory of 
California located at 155 Sansom Street formerly known as the Pacific Stock Exchange 
Luncheon Club. 
 
• 210898 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - One Montgomery Street (aka 1-25 
Montgomery Street) (Crocker National Bank Building). Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
 
One Montgomery Street, constructed in 1908 with an addition in 1920, is historically 
significant for its association with the reconstruction of the Financial District following the 
1906 Earthquake and Fire. Further, it architecturally and historically significant as an 
excellent and well-preserved example of an early twentieth century banking temple in the 
Italian Renaissance Revival-style. It’s ornate and richly detailed interiors exhibit high artistic 
value and was the work of master architect, Willis Polk, and craftsperson, Arthur Putnam. 
 
 
The HPC recommended approval of the landmark designation on August 4, 2021. At the 
Land Use hearing SF Heritage spoke in favor of the designation and the committee 
ultimately recommended approval to the Full Board.  
 
• 220037 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - “Allegory of California,” The City Club 
of San Francisco (formerly Pacific Stock Exchange Luncheon Club), 155 Sansome Street 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. Item 2 
 
 
Allegory of California was recommended for landmark designation by the HPC on November 
2, 2021. Allegory of California was created by Diego Rivera between December 1930 and 
March 1931, at the beginning of Rivera’s first visit to San Francisco and was Rivera’s first 
fresco in the United States. Allegory is culturally and historically significant for its association 
with preeminent Mexican artist Diego Rivera. The first fresco painted by Rivera in the United 
States is also significant for its influence on the New Deal-era Works Project Administration 
mural program and the muralism movement of the 1960s and 1970s. The fresco is also 
significant for association with the Latinx and Chicanx arts communities, a significant and 
vibrant part of San Francisco’s cultural heritage. 
 
 
At the land use hearing this week SF Heritage and SF Latino Historical Society spoke in 
support of designation. Supervisor Melgar also spoke to how important this fresco is to the 
Latino community. Prior to voting on the item, Sups Melgar, Preston, and Mandelman joined 
as co-sponsors. LUT recommended approval to the Full Board.  
 
• 211236 Planning Code - Massage Establishment Zoning Controls. Sponsors: 
Mandelman; Ronen and Preston. Staff: V. Flores 
 
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would allow 
Massage as an Accessory use to Health Services. As you recall this was amended at the 
pervious hearing to include changes to the NC-2 zoning table and then continued for one 
week. At the hearing, Supervisor Mandelman made opening remarks and reiterated the 
drafting error for NC-2 zoning district. 
 
 
Chair Melgar then duplicated file to introduce amendments to Ocean Ave NCT, which had 
very specific parameters due to a history of illicit activity in the Ocean Ave NCT. Supervisor 
Melgar’s amendments were not discussed at the Planning Commission hearing so re-referral 
is required.  
 
 
There were only two commentors; one in cautious support and the other who sought for 
more relaxation of the rules around Massage uses.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
 
The Committee then voted to forward the item to the Full Board, and also to duplicate the 
file with Supervisor Melgar’s amendments. So, this commission will once again hear an 
ordinance dealing with massage uses in the near future.  
 
• 210116 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Central Neighborhoods Large Residence Special 
Use District. Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. Item 5 
 
 
Next, the Land Use Committee heard the substituted version of Supervisor Mandelman’s 
Large Home Legislation. Commissioners, you heard this item on September 23, 2021, and 
recommended disapproval.  
 
 The Supervisor did revise his proposed ordinance based on comments he heard 
from the Commission hearing. The new ordinance: 
 Reduces the affected area of the SUD to District 8. 
 Increases the CUA trigger to 3,000sqft, or a 1.2 FAR  
 Increases the expansion allowance for dwelling units already over the maximum 
from 10% to 15% over the course of 10 years AND 
 Revised the grandfathering clause to apply to applications submitted on or before 
January 1st, 2022 
 
 
After some generally favorable public comment, the Land Use Committee voted 
unanimously to move the ordinance to the full board with a positive recommendation. 
 
 
FULL BOARD 
 
• 220031 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 2000 Oakdale Avenue Project. Staff: Bihl.  
 
 
 
Continued to March 1, 2022 
 
 
 
Introductions 
 
 
Supervisor Walton also introduced interim controls for 18 months that would require 
Conditional Use authorization for all Parcel Delivery Service uses. Since this is an interim 
control, it will not come too you for a recommendation. The item needs to sit for 30 days and 
then will have to go to the Land Use Committee and then to the Full Board for one vote since 
it is a Resolution. If not vetoed by the mayor, it would take effect 10 days after the Board 
signs it.