7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 10 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Commissioners, I just wanted to point out, we sent a, you got an e-mail from Dan Sider 
earlier today. It's our initial take on AB2011, this passed a week ago so it's not yet signed by 
the Governor, but we anticipate it will be signed by the Governor and take effect next year. 
And so, we’ve had discussions on the many state housing bills that were working its way, 
that were working their way through the legislature. This is the one that could have the 
biggest impact on our work in processes. And basically, what it does is allow for ministerial 
approval. So, no DR, no CU, no CEQA work on code compliant projects that are in certain 
zoning districts and meet certain criteria. So, I mean, just high level, it has to be five units 
or more, it has got to meet a minimum of affordability threshold which our inclusionary 
does but those would be onsite. They have to be in zoning districts that both allow for 
housing and commercial use, so it can't be an RH district or a PDR district that's either 
exclusively residential or exclusively commercial. But NC districts, the mixed-use zoning 
districts in the eastern neighborhoods would apply and it has got to be on a roadway that 
is greater than 70 feet from property line to property line. So, we're mapping that and we'll 
get you a map of where that is but it's generally, you know, if you have two kind of typical 
traffic lanes and 2 parking lanes, it wouldn't apply to a street like 24th street for instance in 
the Mission. But it would apply to wider streets like Taraval or Geary, Van Ness, most south 
of Market arterials. You can't demo housing generally on the site so if there's existing 
housing, that site wouldn't apply. There are some height in density increases but they cap 
out at 65 feet. Most height district are over 65 feet on the eastern side of the city. You can 
couple this with state density bonus, and you must meet certain labor standards but it's 
primarily prevailing wage. So again, we'll provide more information as we further analyze 
the bill. We’ll provide maps some to you but we wanted to get you an initial kind of take 
on it, so you have that but happy to answer questions or calendar this as an item when 
we've fully digested it as well. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you, Director Hillis. As the Department is preparing for this, I would -- I guess my 
question and perhaps when there is some sort of an informational session about this 
because San Francisco has its own inclusionary housing requirements where there are 
pretty much three types. And so, if a development doesn't have onsite but have offsite fees 
or land dedication, will that be part of the ministerial approval as well? 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
They've got to be onsite or at least at the level -- the minimum level that's required under 
2011 which I think is 13% but those have to be onsite. So, you couldn't totally fee out and 
have a project, that subject AB2011. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah. I would like, if other Commissioners, but I would like to have informational session 
about this as well. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 10 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I would also be interested if you're getting calls from Planning directors in other 
jurisdictions who may potentially be more affected given the fact that streets in those 
locations are far wider than in San Francisco anyway. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, we haven't yet. But that, you know, our staff is generally great at interpreting these 
laws and tends to be in front of others, but we haven't received any inquiries from other 
agencies. Thanks. 
 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Thank you. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Veronica Flores: 
 
Good afternoon. Commissioners. Veronica Flores, filling in for Aaron Starr, the Manager of 
Legislative Affairs. 
 
 
There was no Land Use and Transportation Committee hearing this week in honor of the 
Labor Day Holiday. 
 
 
The Full Board returned from their summer recess this week and there were four 
Ordinances that PASSED on their First Read. 
 
• 220036 Planning Code - Electric Vehicle Charging Locations. Sponsors: Mayor; 
Mandelman, Stefani, Melgar, Mar, Dorsey and Safai. Staff: Starr. Passed First Read 
 
• 220130 Planning Code - Conditional Use Appeals. Sponsors: Melgar; Peskin, Walton, 
Preston, Ronen and Chan. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
 
• 220757 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Mother’s Building in San Francisco 
Zoo. Sponsors: Melgar; Mar, Chan and Peskin. Staff: Ferguson. Passed First Read 
 
• 220507 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 200 Rhode Island Street (aka 
Takahashi Trading Company). Sponsor: Dorsey, Peskin and Preston. Staff: Westhoff. 
Passed First Read 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I did not receive a report from the Zoning Administrator's office related to the Board of 
Appeals, so I do not have a report from them. But The Historic Preservation Commission 
did meet yesterday, and they considered preservation alternatives for the property at 3251 
20th Avenue, better known as the Stonestown Galleria. And then they also heard some of 
the internship projects and those presentations that were most related to Historic 
Preservation, and it was very well received. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 10