5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. One brief item. I just wanted to let you know if you hadn't 
already heard, that the Mayor and the BIC Commission, appointed Patrick O'Riordan to be 
the permanent Director at the Department of Building Inspection. Obviously, we work 
closely with that Agency, so I wanted to let you know. There is also a report that the City 
Attorney put out. It's on their website, under kind of their new section, kind of looking at 
accusations of wrongdoing at DBI, but it's an interesting read if you have the time. And that's 
all I have. Unless there are any questions. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Hillis, please convey our congratulations and best regards to Mr. O'Riordan. We 
have seen him in front of the Commission many times. Impressed for his ability, and his long-
standing tenure in the Department, and it should be a good start to drive the train into the 
right direction. Thank you. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 27, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 7 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
I absolutely will. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
This week the Land Use Committee hearing was canceled, but the board did meet. On the 
Board’s agenda was Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would allow bars with 
conditional use in the Castro, which passed its second read and the Landmark designation 
for 2778-24th Street passed its first read.  
 
 
· 211093 Planning Code - Castro Street Neighborhood Commercial District] Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read, Item  
 
 
· 211233 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2778-24th Street. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: 
LaValley. Item 1 
 
 
Also, this Tuesday, Supervisor Mandelman reintroduced his Large Home Ordinance. This 
Commission heard that item on September 23rd and recommended disapproval. At the time 
staff had recommended that the controls only apply to RH properties within District 8 via 
and SUD. The revised ordinance does just that, but by creating an SUD within D8. It also 
places a hard cap of 4,000 sq ft per unit, after which a variance would be required, and CUA 
would be triggered at either: 3,000 sq ft, or a 1.2 FAR. All these concepts were discussed at 
the Planning Commission hearing on September 23. Given that and that the Planning 
Commission has already voted to reject this proposal, staff was not planning on bringing 
this item back to the Commission for a hearing and vote, unless I hear differently from you 
today. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
There is a Board of Appeals report. Item, the first is that Commissioner Rick Swig was voted 
as President and Lazarus was voted Vice President. Second, there was an appeal of an 
affordable housing bonus project at 4512 23rd Street that you had previously heard. The 
project was to construct an 11,660 sq ft five-story over basement residential building with 
13 dwelling units under the HomeSF Program. The project is receiving a number of 
development bonuses, including nine extra dwelling units and additional story of height 
and zoning modifications for a rear yard and dwelling unit exposure.  As such, the project is 
required to provide 25% or in this case three on-site affordable dwelling units. Neighbors 
were concerned about impacts to on-street parking and light and air to nearby residents. 
While President Swig, questioned the appropriateness of this project on this unique lot there 
is no car access as the lot fronts on an unimproved right-of-way on 23rd Street and a 10- foot 
walkway on Argent Alley. The Board ultimately, after two hours of public testimony, voted 
4-0 to deny the appeal and uphold the Planning Commission's decision made on October 
21, 2021, to approve the project.