10.
Director’s Announcements
None.
11.
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic
Preservation Commission
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs:
Good afternoon, Commissioner’s, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs
Land Use
This week the Planning Commission considered an ordinance introduced by Supervisor
Safai that would allow long-term parking of and overnight camping in vehicles on parcels
designated and authorized for use as Vehicle Triage Centers (VTC) or Safe Parking Program
sites.
The Ordinance also makes minor amendments related to Cannabis Retail deadlines.
You heard this item on July 21st and unanimously recommend approval.
At the land use hearing, Supervisor Melgar inquired about how many applications were
left in the pipeline and how long these applications would take to review. The Supervisor
also expressed concerned that they’ve heard this before. The Office of Cannabis clarified
there are 35 applications left in the queue and that it has taken longer to review these
applications than anticipated. The Office of Cannabis clarified that they only recently
cleared the backlog of equity applications and now able to focus on these 35. They hope to
complete review of these by the time the legislation takes effect.
There were no public comments and the committee moved it to the Full Board with
positive recommendation.
Full Board
At the Full Board this week, the Board held a committee of the whole on the Housing
Element Update. This was only a hearing, and no action was proposed.
The presentation was led by Director Hillis and Miriam Chion, with other staff available to
respond to comments and questions. The Supervisors used the opportunity to provide
input on the draft and express frustration with the process.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, November 17, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
Supervisors Mandelman, Peskin, Preston, Chan, and Walton expressed frustration that the 
proposed mandate to build more affordable housing did not also come with additional 
money to help the city meet that goal. 
 
Supervisor Melgar commented that she agreed with the plan’s focus on the west side but 
was concerned that the city lacks the builders to create enough affordable units to meet 
the mandate, even if there was money to do it. She noted that her district has not 
produced any affordable units in the last decade. 
 
Supervisor Stefani commented that the city needed to remove process as well as relax 
zoning rules, otherwise development will still get bogged down in process. 
 
Supervisor Walton also expressed some skepticism that housing development would shift 
to other well-resourced areas of the city, and that his district and the eastern side of the 
city would still see the bulk of new housing construction. 
 
Public comment was long and passionate. The hearing lasted about 4 hours before it was 
closed. 
 
That’s concludes my remarks. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Commissioners, the Board of Appeals did meet last night. They unanimously upheld one 
permit that had been approved over the counter but otherwise didn't consider any items 
of interest to the Commission. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission met yesterday, and they adopted Recommendations 
for Approval for a number of Legacy Business Registry applications, the Peking Restaurant 
on Noriega, the Canton Bazaar on Grant Avenue, the Chinatown Kite Shop on Grant 
Avenue, the Artisans of San Francisco on Irving Street, the Mary Elizabeth Inn on Bush 
Street, and Life on Haight Street. After being pulled off of Consent, they also took up the 
matter of Harvey Milk Plaza and the relocation of two of the Path of Gold light standards. 
We received mostly comment in favor and they ultimately approved the minor relocation.