6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Nothing specific. I don't know if Aaron is going to mention 
during his report, but Gabriella Ruiz was nominated by President Walton to sit on the 
Commission to replace Commissioner Chan. She was approved by the Full Board on Monday, 
so I think we expect her to be seated and at the Commission next week, if I’m not – or soon. 
She was approved by the Full Board. And that is all I have. Welcome back.  
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
It’s been a long 2 years. It’s really great to see all of you in person. We’ve had a lot of fun, I 
think, over the last two years. It is also Director Hillis’ very first in-person meeting. 
Apparently, we went into Shelter In Place a week after he got the job. And our new Director 
of Current Planning as well, Ms. Watty is up there for the first time.  It’s exciting. So, you took 
a three-week vacation but the board did not. So, I have three weeks of board reports for you 
but I have condensed it as much as I can just on interest of saving as much time.  
 
 
Land Use  
 
• 211299 Planning Code - Group Housing Definition. Sponsors: Peskin; Walton and 
Mandelman. Staff: Starr.  
 
 
Recommended three weeks ago, Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that amends the definitions 
of Group Housing went to Land Use and passed both the first and second read at the Board. 
It is now with the Mayor, pending her signature. On February 10 you heard this item and 
voted to recommend approval with modifications. Those modifications dealing with 
kitchens and common space were added into the final ordinance.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 14 
 
 
• 211300 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Group Housing Special Use District. Sponsor: 
Peskin. Staff: Starr. Amended and Continued to the Call of the Chair 
 
 
Supervisor Peskin’s Group Housing SUD that would prohibit new group housing in the 
Tenderloin and Chinatown was heard by the Land Use Committee where it was amended 
and continued to the call of the chair. It is still pending at Committee. 
 
• 210866 Planning, Subdivision Codes; Zoning Map - Density Exception in Residential 
Districts. Sponsors: Mandelman; Haney. Staff: Melone. Amended and Continued to the 
Call of the Chair 
 
• 211234 Planning Code - Single, Two and Three-Family Home Bonus Program] Sponsor: 
Safai. Staff: Merlone. Continued to the Call of the Chair 
 
• 211202 Planning, Administrative Codes - Dwelling Unit Density Exception in Residential 
Districts and Rent Control of Bonus Dwelling Units. Sponsor: Mar. Continued to the Call 
of the Chair 
 
 
Supervisors Mandelman’s Safai and Mar’s ordinances to create a density exception in RH 
Districts are also pending at Committee. Commissioners, you recommended approval with 
modifications to Supervisor Mandelman's ordinance back in November, and disapproval of 
Mar and Safai’s ordnances earlier this year. The main difference between the ordinances was 
that Mar and Safai’s included an inclusionary requirement and Mandelman’s did not. 
 
 
After a lengthy hearing on the item, all three ordinances were continued to the call of the 
chair, with Supervisor Peskin suggesting that the three sponsors get locked into a room and 
come up with a consensus ordinance before they come back to committee. AS of today, I 
don’t believe that has happened, and it is not clear when these items will be brought back 
to the Commission again.   
 
 
Full Board 
 
• 210116 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Central Neighborhoods Large Residence Special 
Use District. Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 210898 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - One Montgomery Street (aka 1-25 
Montgomery Street) (Crocker National Bank Building). Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. 
PASSED Second Read 
 
• 220037  Planning Code - Landmark Designation - “Allegory of California,” The City Club 
of San Francisco (formerly Pacific Stock Exchange Luncheon Club), 155 Sansome Street. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 211263 Planning Code - Massage Establishment Zoning Controls. Sponsors: 
Mandelman; Ronen and Preston. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
• 211021 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 447 Battery Street (aka Jones-
Thierbach Coffee Company Building. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. PASSED Second 
Read 
 
• 220009 Planning Code - Landmark Designation -1801 Green Street (aka Golden Gate 
Valley Carnegie Library). Sponsor: Historic Preservation Commission. Staff: Bishop. 
PASSED Second Read 
 
 
At the Full Board, quite a bit has passed Second Read including The Landmark Designations 
for One Montgomery, Allegory of California, 447 Battery Street, and the Golden Gate Valley 
Carnegie Library at 1801 Green Street. Also passing second read were two of Supervisor 
Mandelman’s ordinance, one that would create the Central Neighborhood Large Residence 
Special Use District (or Large Home SUD), and an ordinance that amend the massage 
controls.  
 
• 211219 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Trocadero Clubhouse. Sponsor: Mar. 
Staff: LaValley. First Read, Item 18 
 
• 220000 Planning Code - Van Ness Special Use District - Exempting Institutional 
Community Use Development from Limitation on Nonresidential Uses - 1750 Van Ness 
Avenue. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: May. First Read, Item 19 
 
 
This week, two items passed their first read, including the landmark designation for the 
Trocadero Clubhouse, sponsored by Supervisor Mar, and a project specific ordinance that 
would exempt Community Institution Uses from Limitation on Nonresidential Uses in the 
Van Ness SUD. 
 
 
The Trocadero Clubhouse designation was initiated by Supervisor Mar. The HPC 
recommended approval on September 15 last year. The clubhouse is historically significant 
for its association with the development of recreational facilities in San Francisco. Further, it 
is one of the earliest buildings in the Parkside District and one of the only extant nineteenth-
century structures in southwestern San Francisco. The building is also architecturally and 
historically significant as an excellent and well-preserved example of Stick-Style, Eastlake 
architecture and as the city’s last intact example of a nineteenth century roadhouse. 
 
 
The amendments to the Van Ness SUD are to exempt the San Bao Temple from the required 
3:1 ratio of residential uses to non-residential uses in association with the proposed 
demolish and new construct of the temple. Commissioners, you heard this item on 
September 30 of last year and recommended approval.  
 
• 220159 Interim Zoning Controls - Conditional Use Authorization for Parcel Delivery 
Service Uses. Sponsors: Walton; Preston, Ronen and Chan. Staff: Melone. Adoption, Item 
32 
 
 
Of note, Supervisor Walton’s resolution instituting interim controls passed out of the Board 
this week and is pending the mayor’s signature. The interim controls will require Conditional 
Use authorization for any Parcel Delivery Service for the next 18 months. As these are interim 
controls, they did not come to you for review and action; however, you will be hearing those 
conditional use applications. The Resolution is cosponsored by 8 other Supervisors.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
• 211187 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 3832-18th Street. 
Staff: Sucre. Appeal Denied Project Approved 
 
 
The Board also heard the appeal for 3832 18th Street. This project would demolish the 
existing two-story, single-family residence and then construction a five-story building 
containing 19 group housing units. Commissioners you heard this project on October 14 of 
last year and voted to approve a revised project that removed the top floor, making it a 5-
story project instead of a 6-story project.  
 
 
The adjacent neighbors appealed the project and sought more concessions to protect light 
to their properties. The project sponsor also attempted to appeal the CU decision but was 
unable to so. What resulted was a hearing where neither the appellant nor the project 
sponsor agreed with the Planning Commission's action. In fact, the project sponsor testified 
that the actions by the Planning Department and Commission violated several state 
housings laws and that they intend to pursue legal action against the city.  
 
 
In the end the Board agreed with the Planning Commission's decisions. It denied the appeal 
and so the project the Planning Commission approved can now move forward. I suspect this 
isn’t the last we have heard about this project though. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and considered one item that may be of interest 
to the Planning Commission. 65 Normandie Terrace, the Board heard an appeal of a building 
permit application to correct Planning and DBI notices of violation regarding work 
conducted beyond the scope of the renovation project’s original permit from 2017. The 
proposal focused primarily on work conducted above the height limit. The Planning 
Commission heard this matter as a DR in January and voted 4 to 3 to approve the correction 
permit as proposed. The Board found the permit to be consistent with the Planning Code 
and necessary to correct the violation and they unanimously denied the appeal and 
approved the permit.  
 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did not meet yesterday, but they did meet last week 
here in these chambers in-person.