7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr Planning Department Staff. 
 
LAND USE COMMITTEE  
• 220811 Planning Code - Automotive Uses Residential Density. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: 
Starr. Item 2 
 
 
This week the Land Use and Transportation committee took up the mayor’s Automotive 
Uses/Residential Density ordinance again. As you recall this item has been continued 
several times, most recently last week when it needed to be continued because of a 
noticing error.  
 
 
In previous hearings, both Supervisors Preston and Peskin added amendments that either 
reduce the scope of the program, which Supervisor Peskin did by removing RM and RC 
zoning districts from the proposal, or eliminated density decontrol all together, which 
Supervisor Preston did in a duplicated file.  Peskin’s amendments ultimately made into the 
final ordinance. 
 
 
At this hearing staff gave a brief overview of the ordinance and then presented on the 
findings of the feasibility analysis that the Committee requested.  
 
 
The financial feasibility report analyzed 32 prototypes. This included scenarios reflecting: 
Two site sizes: a 6,000 sq. ft. lot with a 40' height limit and 20,000 sq. ft. lot with 65' height 
limit; For-rent and for-sale; Two Submarkets for each site size, representing lower and 
higher rental rate and sale price areas; Existing zoning and density decontrol rezoning; 
project with and without state density bonus; and project sizes ranging from 4 to 8 stories 
and 10 to 104 units. The report also assumed prevailing wages for construction. 
 
 
The resulting analysis found a negative per-unit residual values for all prototype scenarios. 
This means that the total estimated costs to develop the prototypes exceed the projected 
net operating income for rental projects or the projected net sale proceeds for sale 
projects. 

San Francisco Planning Commission