9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just an update on the Housing Element’s schedule. So, 
we have obviously been working to address comments from HCD, the Board of 
Supervisors, you all, at the last hearing, as well as the public. We’ve got a significant final 
comments from the public as well. So, it has been a fairly hectic time. We will be back 
before you next week on the 8th for an Informational Hearing. You won’t get a detailed 
packet before then about those changes because we are working on changes to get to you 
on the 8th so you can adopt on the 15th. But we'll try to get you a summary of changes and 
then the changes on the 8th and we’ll walk through those changes on the 8th. So, that's the 
calendar we will be looking for any changes you want to make on the 15th and then 
adoption on the 15th.  
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you. I would just ask if whatever does come forward on the 8th, if you can highlight 
the changes. That's very very helpful.  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Yes. It will all be red lined. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 1, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. This week, the Land Use Committee took up the Mayor’s 
Automobile Uses Housing Density ordinance which was on the docket. Unfortunately, due 
to a noticing error the item had to be continued. However, it should be back on Monday.  
 
 
The committee was also able to hear the Safety and Resilience Element this week. 
Commissioners, you heard it item on September 29th and recommended approval. 
AnMarie Rodgers and Danielle Ngo presented at the committee. There was only one public 
commenter after which the committee forwarded the ordinance to the full board with a 
positive recommendation. And then, this week at the full board the Turk and Taylor Street 
Intersection landmark designation passed its second read and Supervisor Safai’s Overnight 
Parking and Cannabis Retail Uses ordinance passed its first read. And that is all I have for 
you today.