5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just one announcement. You may know SPUR puts out or 
gives out Good Government awards every year. I think they're in their 41st year of doing it 
but a lot of this year's awards had to do with the City's response to Covid and the 
pandemic. And so, we were recognized specifically Robin Abad around our work but 
obviously, there are a lot of folks from Planning and across the city who worked on Shared 
Spaces. So, I just wanted to let you know that that was called out specifically as part of the 
SPUR’s Good Government awards. So, thanks. That's all I have. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee  
 
• 220342 Planning Code - Fire-Damaged Liquor Stores in North Beach Neighborhood 
Commercial District. Sponsor: Peskin. 
 
 
This week, the Land Use Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would 
extend the time from 3-6 years that a liquor store could relocate in the North Beach NCD 
due to a fire. Commissioners, you heard this item on May 12 as a consent item and voted to 
approve the ordinance. This week, the Committee voted unanimously to approve the 
ordinance as a Committee Report. 211300 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Group Housing 
Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin 
 
 
Next the Committee heard Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would create the Group 
Housing Special Use District, which prohibits group housing in the Chinatown and 
Tenderloin communities. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 9, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 8 
 
 
The Planning Commission heard this on February 10th and recommended approval with 
the following modifications: 
 
1. Revise the proposed SUD to exempt Student Housing and 100% Affordable 
Housing projects. 
 
2. Exclude the single-room occupancy aspect from this specific legislation with the 
intent to continue discussions in the future. 
 
 
The Land Use and Transportation Committee first heard this item on March 7th along with 
the Group Housing Definition Ordinance. During that hearing, the Committee incorporated 
two changes: 
 
1. Exempting Affordable Housing projects from the SUD (Student Group-Housing 
would still be prohibited) 
 
2. Exempted Single Room Occupancy hotel units required by the Hotel Conversion 
Ordinance from the SUD. 
 
 
During this week’s hearing, there were seven callers in support of the Ordinance citing the 
need for affordable family housing, as opposed to market-rate SROs. Callers included 
CCDC, Tenderloin People’s Congress, TNDC, and existing SRO tenants. At the end of public 
comment, the Committee voted to send the item to Full Board with positive 
recommendation for June 14th 220446 Planning, Administrative, Subdivision Codes; 
Zoning Map - Density Exception in Residential Districts. Sponsor: Mandelman. 
 
 
Last but not least, the Committee took up Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance to up-zone 
all RH-1 Districts to RH-2 and allow four-plexes on interior lots and six units on corner lots 
in RH Districts if certain conditions are met. 
 
 
There had been several ordinances pending at committee that were sponsored by 
Mandelman and one sponsored by Mar; however, the one heard by the Land Use 
committee on Monday is the only one moving forward. Supervisor Safai’s is still pending 
before the committee. 
 
 
The amended ordinance now requires the subject property to have been owned by the 
applicant for at least five years prior to application, or to be owned by the related heirs of 
the owner to be eligible for the program. To be eligible for condo conversion in properties 
where a full demolition of existing units will not occur, applicants must attest that they will 
continue to live at the property for at least 3 years post development. The amended 
ordinance also requires all bonus units be rent-controlled. 
 
 
Supervisor Mar introduced a reporting requirement for the Planning Department. Under 
Sup. Mar’s requirement, the Department is required to prepare an annual report 
addressing the characteristics and demographics of the applicants to and participants of 
the program. Both amendments were adopted, and the ordinance was unanimously 
recommended to the Full Board. It is scheduled to appear before the Board for its first read 
on June 14th. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 9, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
 
Full Board  
• 220461 Initiating Landmark Designation - Turk and Taylor Streets Intersection. 
Sponsor: Preston. Adopted 220342 Planning Code - Fire-Damaged Liquor Stores in 
North Beach Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor: Peskin. Passed First Read