10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Welcome back. On the intern program, we will get you the 
link to the presentations. They were great. And I want to thank Tina Tam and all the staff for 
working with the interns. She has done an incredible job building our program, both the 
college internship program and the high school internship program, so a huge thanks to 
her. I also want to echo the thanks and appreciation for Commissioner Fung. I had the great 
pleasure of serving with him on this Commission, on the Board of Appeals prior to that and 
he’s going to be hard to replace because he brought a tremendous amount of experience 
and decades of service. His advice and decision making was always clear and direct and it is 
much appreciated. So, he will be missed.  I also wanted to reiterate, I sent you over when 
you were on break, just some information on, and I’m sure you read about it too on the 
state’s – one, initial response to our Housing Element. And so, they gave us comments on 
our draft Housing Element. This is part of the process and some reports, it was called a HCD, 
rejected our Housing Element. They didn’t. You know, this was anticipated  that we would 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
get significant comments from them. We haven’t submitted it to them for approval or denial 
at this point. We’ll go through another round of this too with getting comments from HCD 
on our next draft. So, we’re working to respond currently to their comments. And then 
separately although related, HCD announced that they would undertake this Housing 
Policies and Practice review and this was driven by analysis they did that shows our approval 
process is a long one, not something that is news to us either, but they want to look at why 
it takes the time it takes for us to approve housing projects. Not just the Planning 
Department, other Planning Commissions. They are looking at legislative processes, how we 
administer CEQA, even post entitlement with DBI approvals and DPW approvals. So we’ll 
have, we don’t have their scope yet, of work. We’re hoping to get that in the next couple of 
weeks and talk through how this is going to work. We expect it to be a collaborative process 
but we will schedule a time to come talk to you when we get that scope about that as well 
as the comments we received on the Housing Element. So, hopefully we’re back here with a 
more formal presentation in September to give you an update on those. And that’s all I have. 
Thanks. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I have a question, Director Hillis. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
In terms of the HCD’s comments, and you mentioned that HCD are looking into it also in the 
post entitlements. I guess we’ll hear it more in terms of  -- because we’ve had always these 
discussions about entitlements approved but also not being built. That’s also going to be 
part of the HCD’s comments? 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I mean I think they’re looking at the City’s entitlement process through permitting, through 
building permits issued. I don’t believe they are going to look at why a project sponsor may 
not move forward once they get entitlement. I think it’s strictly, that’s kind of the City’s 
process. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
But they are looking beyond the Planning entitlements to actual pulling of building permits 
as well. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. Thank you. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. I do have somewhat 
longer than typical report from the Board of Appeals. 
 
 
 
They did meet last night and they announced the departure of Tina Chang and thanked her 
for her service. As some of you who may recall, she actually used to be a Planner in our 
Department and her Planning experience would definitely be missed on the board. And her 
vacated seat has not yet been filled and they will be down to four. 
 
The board then considered three items of interest to the Planning Commission. 
 
 
The first, the board heard a rehearing request  for an appeal that was previously denied for 
706 Vermont Street. And this project came before the Planning Commission as a DR Request 
in February of this year and the Commission voted unanimously to not take DR. The DR, the 
appeal and the rehearing request focused on the intended use of a roof deck that had also 
been labeled and described sometimes as a green roof.  Ultimately, the board voted to deny 
the rehearing request but did request that the Planning Department and Planning 
Commission be more deliberate in how such features are described in the future to ensure 
everyone is on the same page as to how such decks may be used. 
 
 
Second, the board heard an appeal of the building permit application to construct a one-
story, detached State law ADU at the rear of the property at 1526 Masonic Avenue. The 
original project was to construct a standard new dwelling unit in the rear yard. And the 
Commission and the Zoning Administrator heard the DR and Variance cases in January of 
2020. That hearing was continued with the Commission providing feedback for the 
applicant to consider and analyze an addition to the rear of the existing historic building 
instead and that would have not triggered a variance. However, state law for ADUs was 
amended soon after that hearing which allowed detached ADUs in the required rear yard 
without a variance, without neighborhood notification, or without a discretionary review 
process. The appeal argued that the ADU permit plans included inaccurate information 
regarding the existing grade and as such believed the height of the proposed ADU would 
exceed the maximum permitted height of 16 feet.  However, the applicant provided a site 
survey that confirmed the height of the ADU will be 15’ 11” tall from grade and thereby 
comply with state law. And the board agreed with the applicant voting unanimously to deny 
the appeal. 
 
 
 And finally, the board heard an appeal of the Zoning Administrator Determination 
regarding change of tenure for onsite affordable housing at 1145 Polk Street, which was 
filed by two separate lottery winners. While this project was never before the Planning 
Commission, it did represent a unique inclusionary housing dilemma and there have been 
several public commenters at the Commission over the last few months that have raised this 
situation to the Commission. So, while the Planning Code and Procedures Manual do allow 
for a change of tenure, in this case it’s going from rental to ownership, this scenario was 
unique in that the decision to change tenure was made after a rental lottery had already 
been conducted. So, this change in tenure, it already required a written determination from 
the Zoning Administrator but neither the Planning Code nor the Procedures Manual provide 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 13 
 
any guidance on how best to address this unique situation. Earlier this year, I issued a 
determination that attempted to balance the rights of the property owner within the right 
of the Planning Code and Procedures Manual with the expectations of the lottery winners 
by requiring four of the eight onsite affordable units be offered for sale at the lower 55% 
AMI level that’s typically for rental units instead of the higher 90% AMI level for ownership 
units. That determination was appealed and originally heard in June where the board 
recognized the challenging situation at hand but stated they preferred a determination that 
provided a bit more deference to the lottery winners and they instructed the parties to work 
on such an outcome to bring back to the board. Ultimately, one of the appellants worked 
with the property owner on a compromise that was also reviewed and supported by the 
Planning Department and MOHCD, although it was not supported by the second appellant. 
The compromise simply required all eight affordable units be priced at the lower 55% AMI 
level instead of only four, and that any unsold units at that level could then revert to the 
90% AMI level for ownership units. The board recognized the difference between rental 
tenants and ownership tenants relative to affordable housing but also found the proposed 
compromise to be the best outcome considering current city laws, and they voted 
unanimously to adopt the revised determination. And that concludes this longer than usual 
Board of Appeals report. I’m available for any questions you may have. Thank you. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did not meet yesterday. However, they did meet on 
August 17th and I will give a brief report because it was somewhat unique. The did adopt 
recommendations for approval for legacy business registry applications that included the 
Piedmont Boutique on Haight Street, Outpost Studios on Battery Street, PO Plus on Castro 
Street, St. John Coltrane Church on Marina Boulevard, and Pop’s Bar on 24th Street. But 
probably what’s more unique was they adopted a recommendation to designate, for 
landmark designation to the Board of Supervisors, the site of the Compton’s Cafeteria Riot 
at the intersection of Turk and Taylor Streets. So, although they did include portions of the 
building on 101 Taylor Street, this was unique in that it was a “site” as opposed to a 
“structure” for cultural reasons.