8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. I just wanted to share also my thanks and appreciation, 
Commissioner Chan, for your work here. It is amazing, we've only worked together in this 2-
D environment, but I feel like we've gotten to know you and your strong and steady voice of 
about the issues we have faced. It has clearly come through even in this kind of 2-D world. 
So, thank you very much. Thank you for your leadership and guidance in transforming our 
work around equity, establishing a community equity division on the housing element. And 
very much want to echo the thanks for your leadership in creating the Young Planners 
Program. It's amazing, in the short time we've seen it actually implemented. We're starting 
to recruit for the second year, and seeing the faces of the young people that is impacted. So, 
thank you very much for that particularly. And that's all I have. Happy New Year. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
• 220054 Adopting the Final Mitigated Negative Declaration - 1236 Carroll Avenue Sponsor:  
Walton. Staff: Poling. 
 
 
First on the Land use agenda, the Committee took up the Final Mitigated Negative  
Declaration for 1236 Carol Street. 1236 Carroll Ave is to be the future site of the Fire 
Department’s training facility. The lease on our current facility located on Treasure Island is 
ending in a few years. A board committee voting on a Final MND is unusual and our staff had 
not seen this type of hearing before. It turns out the process was necessitated by the need 
for purchasing guarantees that the city had to make to the seller. After a robust discussion 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 12 
 
on the reason why this item was before the Board, and clarification that this did not tie the 
hands of the Board in the future, the Committee voted unanimously to recommend the item 
to the Full Board.  
 
• 211232 Administrative Code - Housing Innovation Program. Sponsors: Melgar; Mar. Staff: 
Not Staffed. Item 2 
 
 
Next the Committee considered an ordinance sponsored by Supervisor Melgar that would 
amend the Administrative Code to create the Housing Innovation Program. The program is 
intended to develop, finance, and support certain additional housing opportunities for low-
income and moderate-income residents. These would include loans and technical assistance 
for certain low-income and moderate-income property owners to construct accessory 
dwelling units or other new units on their property. The program would also provide loans 
for certain low-income and moderate-income tenants who are at risk of displacement as 
well as licensed childcare providers. It would also provide grants for organizations to create 
marketing and educational materials about wealth-building and homeownership for 
residents who have been historically disadvantaged, and develop creative construction 
design prototypes for low-income and moderate-income residents. 
 
 
Planning staff was not involved in this presentation but our recently departed colleague, 
Sheila Nikolopoulos, did participate in the presentation representing MOHCD. The item was 
amended with what appear to be clerical modifications and the item was then continued to 
the call of the chair. 
 
• 210295 Hearing - Residential Vacancies in San Francisco. Sponsors: Preston; Ronen 
 
 
Also on the agenda was a hearing called by Supervisor Preston on Residential Vacancies in 
San Francisco. At this hearing the results of a report by the Budget and Legislative Analyst 
Office on the number of vacant housing units in San Francisco were presented. The report is 
more nuanced than the headlines may suggest. I’m happy to forward you the link to the 
report if you have not reviewed it already. In addition to analyzing the number of vacant 
housing units in San Francisco and why they may be vacant, the report also affirms the need 
to build more housing, especially affordable housing, to meet current and future demands. 
It also explores tax policies to encourage vacant units to come back on the market.  
 
Full Board 
• 211233 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2778-24th Street. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: 
LaValley. PASSED Second Read 
 
And best of Luck Commissioner Chan, I’m sorry we never got to meet in person.   
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
I have no report from the Board of Appeals, but the Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday. They had a relatively short hearing where they heard the FY 2022-2024 
Proposed Budget and Work Program and adopted a recommendation for approval to you 
all. And then finally heard the housing element where they received zero public comment, 
but they did deliberate quite extensively. And you should hear or you will be hearing the 
concerns that they presented at the hearing through staff. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 12 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I had a question, Jonas, but you didn't see. I wanted to ask the Director, I wanted to ask Aaron 
Starr, as to whether or not you're entertaining the thought of giving the Commission an 
update or insight into the vacancy report. I would very much like the Department's thoughts, 
and I think it would help the Commission to hear it presented by you. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Commissioner, I leave that to you and the officers. We can certainly send you the link to the 
report if you  have not read it. I think it's an important document to look at and read because 
it points us in certain policy directions. But happy to schedule a hearing if you and the 
president want to hear that. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Perhaps we pick it up next Tuesday. I personally would be interested in it even in an 
abbreviated form, in whatever form it ultimately shakes itself out. If it involves the 
Department a very proactive and I'm curious to hear just general thoughts and  framework 
ideas of how that goal could be accomplished. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I don't know that we could do that next week. I think we'd want to bring the authors of the 
report and maybe even the supervisor or Supervisor Preston's office, who commissioned or 
asked for the report.  So in case you have questions about methodology, that we can get 
those answered, but happy to. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
We can pick that up next Tuesday, and let's also by then hear from other commissions, 
perhaps. Thank you.