5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. JFK is truly a 
great place to go and cycle, but you forgot the beer garden so that’s another thing there. 
Anyway, this is the last board report for the year. The board is now on recess. 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
• 221110 Initiating Landmark Designation - 1200 Taraval Street (aka Parkside Library). 
Sponsors: Mar; Chan, Melgar and Peskin. Staff: Not Staffed 
 
 
This week the Land Use Committee initiated landmark designation for the Parkside Library, 
which is locate at 1200 Taraval Street. The initiation was sponsored by Supervisor Mar. This 
still need to go to HPC for adoption and then back through the Board’s legislative process.  
 
 
 
Full Board 
 
• 220811 Planning Code - Automotive Uses Residential Density. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: 
Starr. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 221065 General Plan - Adopting the 2022 Safety & Resilience Element. Sponsor: Planning 
Commission. Staff: Ngo. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 221165 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - St. James Presbyterian Church. Sponsor: 
Walton. Staff: LaValey. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 221141 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 4835 Mission 
Street. Staff: Asbagh. Continued to January 24, 2022. 
 
• 221110 Initiating Landmark Designation - 1200 Taraval Street (aka Parkside Library). 
Sponsors: Mar; Chan, Melgar and Peskin. Staff: Not Staffed. Adopted 
 
That’s all I have for you today and I hope that you have a very happy holidays and safe and 
fun new year. Thanks. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board Appeals 
did meet last night and they did hear one item of interest to the Commission. There is a 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
project proposed at 955 Sansome Street, it is a HOME SF project. As you may recall, when 
the tenant market rate HOME SF program was adopted in 2017, the Board of Supervisors 
had carved out the northeast part of the city where that would not be eligible except on 
parcels that were either vacant or with large and essentially soft sites developed in no 
more than 20% of their zoned capacity. This project filed its first applications in January of 
21 and has been going through the process, review process, and going through the HPC 
process now because it is in a historic district. The Waterfront Action Committee had 
disputed the eligibility of the site for HOME SF and the manner in which staff had 
calculated the eligibility criteria. Ultimately, they requested a letter of determination and I 
issued that in early October determining that the existing building which is a 2-story 
parking garage only represented about 18% of the zone capacity and therefore it did 
qualify. They appealed that on numerous grounds but the primary issues were that the 
analysis used represented a project that wouldn't be desirable and may not actually be 
feasible to build and our determination was that was not part of the context or 
requirement in the Planning Code to consider. There was a pretty lively discussion at the 
Board of Appeals. They were a little conflicted with the wording in the Planning Code but 
ultimately, they did vote unanimously to uphold the determination and confirmed that the 
project is eligible for HOME SF. And so, at some point in the future you may see the project 
here before you but, I’m available for any questions you may have about that issue.