7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr Planning Department Staff. 
 
LAND USE COMMITTEE  
• 220811 Planning Code - Automotive Uses Residential Density. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: 
Starr. Item 2 
 
 
This week the Land Use and Transportation committee took up the mayor’s Automotive 
Uses/Residential Density ordinance again. As you recall this item has been continued 
several times, most recently last week when it needed to be continued because of a 
noticing error.  
 
 
In previous hearings, both Supervisors Preston and Peskin added amendments that either 
reduce the scope of the program, which Supervisor Peskin did by removing RM and RC 
zoning districts from the proposal, or eliminated density decontrol all together, which 
Supervisor Preston did in a duplicated file.  Peskin’s amendments ultimately made into the 
final ordinance. 
 
 
At this hearing staff gave a brief overview of the ordinance and then presented on the 
findings of the feasibility analysis that the Committee requested.  
 
 
The financial feasibility report analyzed 32 prototypes. This included scenarios reflecting: 
Two site sizes: a 6,000 sq. ft. lot with a 40' height limit and 20,000 sq. ft. lot with 65' height 
limit; For-rent and for-sale; Two Submarkets for each site size, representing lower and 
higher rental rate and sale price areas; Existing zoning and density decontrol rezoning; 
project with and without state density bonus; and project sizes ranging from 4 to 8 stories 
and 10 to 104 units. The report also assumed prevailing wages for construction. 
 
 
The resulting analysis found a negative per-unit residual values for all prototype scenarios. 
This means that the total estimated costs to develop the prototypes exceed the projected 
net operating income for rental projects or the projected net sale proceeds for sale 
projects. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
 
 
In short it found even with density decontrol, under current market conditions housing is 
not financially feasible to build in the markets and scenarios analyzed. This was true even 
with an assumed CEQA Cat Ex, limited entitlement time, and no significant costs for 
remediation, demolition of significant structures, or substantial holding costs. 
 
 
Supervisors Preston and Peskin used the report to suggest the folly of pursuing such a 
program, since it didn’t make constructing housing financially feasible; however, 
Supervisor Melgar voiced her support for moving the ordinance forward that day. She also 
said that while the analysis showed projects would still be infeasible, it also showed that it 
made projects significantly more financially feasible. By up to 60% in some cases. 
Ultimately this ordinance was moving the city in the right direction and setting the right 
priorities by replacing auto oriented developments with housing.   
 
 
There were only a few people who spoke during public comment, and most were in 
support of the proposed ordinance. Ultimately the Committee voted unanimously to 
forward the item as a committee report to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
• 221165 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - St. James Presbyterian Church. 
Sponsor: Walton. Staff: LaValley.  
 
 
Next on the agenda was the landmark designation for St. James Presbyterian Church. This 
designation was initiated by Supervisor Walton who was also the primary sponsor on the 
designation ordinance.  
 
 
St. James Presbyterian Church, constructed in 1922-3, is architecturally and historically 
significant as one of Visitacion Valley’s oldest religious congregations that has contributed 
to the development of the neighborhood and as an example of the work of renowned 
architect, Julia Morgan.  
 
 
At their November 2 hearing, the HPC unanimously recommended approval of the 
landmark designation.  
 
 
At this week’s committee hearing, SF Heritage and property owner’s representative spoke 
in support of designation. After public comment the committee recommended approval 
and forwarded the item as a committee report.  
 
FULL BOARD 
 
• 220542 Planning Code - Temporary Safe Overnight Parking and Cannabis Retail Uses. 
Sponsor: Safai. PASSED Second Read 
 
• 221065 General Plan - Adopting the 2022 Safety & Resilience Element. Sponsor: 
Planning Commission. Staff: Ngo. Passed First Read 
 
• 220811 Planning Code - Automotive Uses Residential Density. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: 
Starr. Passed First Read 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
• 221165 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - St. James Presbyterian Church. 
Sponsor: Walton. Staff: LaValley. Passed First Read 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board of 
Appeals did meet last night but they only considered really 2 items and neither were of 
interest to the Planning Commission. Thank you. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Commissioners, we had a fairly lengthy hearing yesterday at the Historic Preservation 
Commission in these chambers. The community came out in force regarding the Castro 
Theatre. So, even though it was proposed to be continued they spoke under General Public 
Comment and then again under the Continuance Calendar. And they made it very loud 
and clear that their desire is to preserve the slopped seating arrangement in the Castro 
Theatre and to designate the interior as a character-defining feature. Ultimately because of 
procedural matters that Commission could not necessarily take action on that matter so 
they deferred to Supervisor Mandelman's request to continue the matter to February 1st. 
So, they will be taking up that amendment to the landmark designation on February 1st. 
Furthermore, under the Regular Calendar, they considered Legacy Business Registry 
applications for Cafe Grecco on Columbus, Bloomers on Washington Street and Developing 
Environments on Alabama Street.  Finally, they adopted historic context statements for the 
Duboce Triangle and North Beach which was in the works for about 18 years. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Congratulations on finishing a 18 year-long project. That’s great.