6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Happy new year, Commissioners. As you have probably heard, most of our staff has returned 
back to a Work-From-Home mode at the direction of DHR for the next couple of weeks post 
holidays. But I did want to thank our team who continues to work in person, especially those 
at the Permit Center, and our Reception counter and the Public Information Counter in 
serving the public during this time. Also, I wanted to highlight that as part of the city's 
ConnectSF work, the city's Transit Strategy has been released. You had an informational 
item on this, I believe in October of last year. The strategy outlines capital projects on 
programs to meet existing and future needs in this city. Primarily, strategies are around 
manage and repair, keep getting our system working better, delivering a five-minute 
transportation network in modernizing and expanding our rail system. You can find that 
report on the SF Connect website. And obviously, our future land uses and our housing 
element play a big role in this work and we're planning a joint Planning MTA Hearing this 
year to further discuss that linkage between housing and transportation and it is also the 
basis and foundation for our Transportation Element update. So, thank you to our team who 
have been working on this as well as our colleagues at MTA and the Transportation 
authority. Also, I wanted to thank our Current Planning and Housing team for the scramble 
to update our bulletins and our applications to reflect SB-9, as we heard SB-9 took effect 
January 1. We are going to have another hearing on it I think later this month, but it took 
some work to update our information and the application so I wanted to thank them. No 
report yet, I'm kind of -- applications that are coming in, I don't think we've seen any yet, but 
we will keep you posted on that. And that is my report. Thank you. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Happy New Year. The Land Use Committee did not meet 
this week but the Board did and held another hearing on the emergency declaration for the 
Tenderloin. This is not a Planning issue but staff was asked to join in the hearing to answer 
questions from Supervisor Melgar about CPMC's obligation to the Tenderloin community 
and their development agreement. Staff is preparing a formal response to the supervisors' 
questions. Coincidentally, there will be an informational hearing before this Commission on 
January 20th to update you how CPMC is fulfilling their obligations under the DA. Also, prior 
to the holiday break, Supervisor Safai introduced a charter amendment that would create a 
streamline administerial approval process for housing projects with 25 or more residential 
units. That provide the inclusionary units in excess of what is required by the Planning Code. 
Those extra units would be there for occupants earning no more than 140% of AMI. The 
streamlined process would also be available for 100% affordable housing projects. The 
initiative also includes prevailing wage requirements and excludes projects that demolish 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 6, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 6 
 
existing housing or historic resources. The proposal would amend the charter to limit the 
review of eligible projects by the Planning Commission, Board of Supervisors, Board of 
Appeals, Historic Preservation Commission, and the Arts Commission. The proposal would 
allow eligible projects to receive certain modifications to Planning Code, allow limited 
design review by the Planning Department and require ministerial approval within 180 days 
of submittal of a completed development application. Since this is a valid initiative, the 
Planning Department and the Planning Commission cannot take a position on it. However, 
you can hold an informational hearing on the matter if you so choose. That concludes my 
report for you and I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday for their first hearing of this new 
year. The only item that may be of interest to the Planning Commission is that they also 
amended their Rules and Regulations to include a statement that reflects the Racial and 
Social Equity endeavors of the Department in their Rules and Regulations to satisfy phase 
one of the Racial and Social Equity plan.