6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just one quick item. Commissioners, good afternoon. Just wanted to update you, we were 
scheduled to return back again to the office next week starting on Monday but that's been 
delayed City DHR and the Health Department till March 7th. So, just wanted to give you that 
update. I think we're still awaiting direction on future Commission meetings being in public. 
But that's all I have for you today. Thank you. 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Right. I will only add that, that is, to me, an indicator we won’t be meeting in the first week 
of March in City Hall.  
 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
• 211236 Planning Code - Massage Establishment Zoning Controls. Sponsors: 
Mandelman; Ronen and Preston. Staff: V. Flores 
 
This week, the land use committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that 
would allow Massage as an accessory use to Health Service. Commissioners, you heard this 
item on February 3rd and unanimously recommended approval with modifications.  
 
The proposed modification was to change the controls for Massage Establishments in NC-2 
Districts by removing the CU and allowing them as a Principally Permitted use on the first 
floor. This amendment matches the intent of the original Ordinance.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 10, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
Supervisor Mandelman included the modification in a revised Ordinance at the Committee 
hearing. There was only one member of the public who spoke on the item, they were 
concerned about unintended consequences related to the proposed changes. The 
Committee the voted to amend the ordinance to include the Commission’s proposed 
modifications, and then voted to continue the item one week since the amendment was 
substantive. 
 
Full Board 
• 211187 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 3832-18th Street. 
Staff: Jimenez. Items 23-26 (Please note, this hearing is likely to be continued to March 
15, 2022) 
 
At the full Board this week, the Board was scheduled to hear the CU appeal for 3832 18th 
Street, but the item was continued to March 15 to allow the parties more time on working 
toward an agreement.