5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just one announcement, I wanted to let you know that the 
draft EIR for the Housing Element was issued yesterday. I was just looking at our website and 
couldn’t find it there so I'll make sure it is more prominent on our website, both on the front 
page and the Housing Element page. There is a 60-day comment period. We will also have 
it before you for comment by you as well as the public within that 60 days. I just wanted to 
let you know. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic Preservation 
Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, manager of Legislative Affairs. This week's 
Land Use Committee was a quickie with only one item on the agenda, Adult Sex Venues. As 
I’m sure you recall the ordinance creates a new definition of the code adult sex venues and 
permits them in neighborhoods where they are most prevalent prior to the AIDS crisis. 
Commissioners, you heard this item on April 7th and recommended approval with 
modifications. Those included to, 1) expand the area in which adults sex venues are 
principally permitted within the RC Zoning District to include the Compton’s Transgender 
Cultural District, 2) clarify the definition of adult sex venues to ensure that most common 
types of ASVs can operate without seeking additional use permits, and 3) correct the error 
in table A10 to change that all business from “permitted” to “non-permitted”, and finally, 
some other clerical fixes. There were about three public speakers during the hearing, all in 
support. After public speakers, the committee then made a motion to amend the ordinance 
to include all of the Planning Commission's recommended modifications and then continue 
to one week because there were amendments that were deemed substantive.  
 
 
 
At the Full Board this week, the landmark designation for the Clay Theatre passed its first 
read. And that's all I have for you today. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
There is no report from the Board of Appeals. However, the Historic Preservation 
Commission did meet yesterday and they actually received an Informational Presentation 
on the Housing Element 2022 Update, as well as, an informational presentation from staff 
related to the San Francisco Survey and Community Engagement Framework. And finally, 
extended the Certificate of Appropriateness for the Bandshell use of the stage for outdoor 
lighting and sound system. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 21, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 8