4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 21, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 3 of 6 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee  
• 220036 Planning Code - Electric Vehicle Charging Locations. Sponsors: Mayor; 
Mandelman, Stefani, Melgar, Mar and Dorsey. Staff: Starr. 
 
 
The Mayor’s EV Charging Location ordinance was before the Land Use Committee again this 
week. Last week it needed to be continued a week because the amendments had not been 
signed to form. This week, Supervisor Peskin introduced those amendments, which require 
CU for Fleet Charging in all zoning districts and to remove the ability for Fleet Charging to 
be an Accessory Use. He then duplicated the ordinance and added findings for the Planning 
Commission to consider when approving a CU application for fleet charging. The amended 
ordinance with the additional findings were then re-referred to this commission, and the 
other ordinance was continued for one week since the amendments were substantive. You 
will have the opportunity to weigh in on the new findings after your recess. 
 
 
Full Board  
• 220716 Initiating Landmark Designation Amendment - St. James Presbyterian Church. 
Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Boudreaux. Adopted 
 
And also about an hour ago we received word that the Mayor had vetoed Supervisor 
Mandelman's fourplex ordinance. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Mr. Starr, for the vehicle charging, we're just going to get back the consideration for the fleet 
charging portion of that legislation or will be the entire- 
 
 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
You'll get the -- the ordinance still has everything else in it but it has to be referred back to 
you because you didn't consider any findings. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and while they did not hear any cases of interest 
to the Planning Commission, they did welcome Alex Lemberg as their newest 
Commissioner. Mr. Lemberg is an attorney who resides in the Castro and is the president of 
the Eureka Valley Neighborhood Association. The Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday and adopted recommendations for approval for several Legacy Business 
applications including Suppenkuche on Laguna Street, Latin Bridal on Mission Street, 
Nomad Cyclery on Irving Street, John's Grill on Ellis Street, and Wilcox Frozen Foods on 
Oakdale Avenue. Additionally, they adopted a resolution in support of a National Register of 
Historic Places under Criterion B for its association with Architect of Merit, Timothy Flueger. 
And finally, they adopted the Mission Dolores Neighborhood Historic Context Statement 
and Survey. 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 21, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 6