8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. No announcements from me just welcome Commissioner 
Ruiz. We had a chance to work together briefly on group housing issues in the Housing 
Element and valued your input and guidance. Thanks, and look forward to having you weigh 
in on a wide swath of issues that we take on here at Planning. So, welcome. 
 
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
 
Thank you. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Hi good afternoon, Commissioners. It’s nice to see you all. Welcome Commissioner Ruiz. It is 
exciting to have you on the Commission. At Land Use this week, first, the Land Use 
Committee heard Supervisor Melgar's resolution initiating the landmark designation for the 
Mother's Building, which is located at the SF Zoo. This is only an initiation.  The designation 
still needs to go before the HPC and then back to the Full Board before it becomes a 
landmark. The Mother’s Building first opened in 1925 and was originally part of the 
Fleishhacker Pool complex. The building is in serious need of pair and includes some 
significant New Deal murals and mosaics all done by female artists. Supervisor Peskin asked 
to be added as a co-sponsor and the Committee unanimously recommended the resolution 
to the Full Board.  
 
Next, Supervisor Mandelman's Four Plex Legislation was on the docket but it was continued 
for another week to April 11th. We’re all very excited to find out what the supervisors 
eventually put together and pass. And then at the Full Board this week, the landmark 
designation for the Trocadero Clubhouse passed its second read and the amendments to 
the Van Ness Special Use District for 1750 Van Ness Avenue passed its second read as well. 
And the appeal for the tentative map approval of O Palo Alto Avenue was continued to April 
26th. That is all I have for you today. Thanks. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 7, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
I have no report for the Board of Appeals but I did hear the Zoning Administrator chime in 
earlier, so maybe he has the report. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
Thank you, Jonas. The Board of Appeals did not meet last night. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Okay very good. The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. Most notably 
they heard a number of legacy business registry applications and they were all adopted with 
recommendations for approval. But those properties included the Latin Jewelers at 2344 
Mission Street, the Valentino Market at 2000 Filbert Street, Buddha Lounge at 901 Grant 
Avenue, Far East Cafe at 631 Grand Avenue, SF Carts and Concessions, Inc. at 333 Post Street, 
Sai’s Vietnamese Restaurant at 505 Washington Street, Paxton Gate at 824 Valencia Street, 
the Buenavista Café at 2765 Hyde Street, the Helmand Palace at 2424 Van Ness Avenue and 
the Small Fry’s Children Store at 3984 24th Street. They also considered the St. Francis Wood 
Historic District and adopted a resolution recommending its adoption.