7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. A couple items, one I just wanted to recognize Jonas Ionin. 
He is celebrating his 20th year with the Planning Department. Jonas, I think 10 years here at 
the Commission, how long as a Commission Secretary?  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I've officially been Secretary since 2012. So, about 10 years. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
So, half his career here with you in the Commission. Also, I wanted to note under news with 
our Ground Play Program which is our effort to take underutilized public space. It is multi-
jurisdictional or multi-agencies and converted to community space. Playland which you may 
know which is out on 43rd between Judah and Irving. It's a former School District site, has 
been used for open space, a skate park and I think there's a garden there. It's been successful. 
It has had a six-year run, but it's closing. We are having a celebration to close that. Good 
news, it's turning into housing, into teacher housing. But, we did also open Treat Plaza which 
is at the corners of Harrison, Treat and 16th off a former rail right-of-way, which was 
converted to open space, so that's good news. I also wanted to point out to you -- I sent you 
an email earlier today forwarding the Controller's monthly report on recovery and I think 
these are posted on the Controller's website as well, but continues to show where we're kind 
of in recovery mode but it's slow going as you can imagine. And as you've heard here, like 
office attendance is at about 35% of its pre-pandemic level. Vacancies are still fairly high at 
20%. We're seeing some uptick in hotel occupancy. I think it's at 50+ percent but 
significantly lower than the 80+ percent it was pre-pandemic. So, I'll continue to forward 
those on when they come from the Controller's office and that's all I have.  
 
President Tanner: 
My only question is, did they give you anything for 20 years Jonas? What happens? Did you 
get like a pin?  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
I think you just get a pat on the back and a kick in the [Bleep].  
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
 
Audrey Merlone: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Audrey Merlone for Aaron Starr who is out today.  
 
The Land Use Committee had a full agenda this week which included: 
  
Presentations from the Controller’s Office, Planning Department, and Rent Board regarding 
the Intermediate Length Occupancy (ILO) Program. The Controller’s Office presented the 
results of their ILO study, which was mandated by the original ordinance, the Planning 
Department provided updates on application volume and enforcement considerations, and 
the Rent Board provided an update on how ILOs have impacted their work. Supervisor 
Peskin noted a need to prioritize enforcement of ILOs in rent-controlled units, which are 
prohibited from being classified as ILOs. 
 
Second, Adult Sex Venues which were continued last week in order to incorporate all of the 
Commission’s recommended modifications, so those were heard for a second time and was 
approved as a Committee Report. 
 
Third, we have our 3 different, now 5 different Fourplex proposals. So, if you will just bear 
with me here. I can go into as much or as little details as you would like. I will take my queues 
from if you would like to hear more detail in any of these in this areas. But when the hearing 
first convened the ordinances were as follows: 
 
So we have Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance, which proposed to allow 4 units on all RH 
zoned lots without an affordability requirement. He had previously amended his ordinance 
to include many of the Commission’s recommended modifications, not all but many. If you 
would like me to go over what those were, again I’m happy to. . . .Okay, great. 
 
And then beyond what the Commission had recommended that he incorporated, he had 
also previously included: 
• 
Specifically stating in the legislation that all demolished units must be replaced 
• 
Requiring any units over the base density to be rent-controlled 
• 
And creating a new zoning district called RH-2(D), and rezoning all of the RH-
1(D) parcels currently to that new zoning district 
 
And some of these amendments were requested or introduced by Supervisor Melgar which 
Supervisor Mandelman was happy to incorporate previously. So at Monday’s hearing, 
Supervisor Mandelman did not propose to amend his ordinance further. However, both 
Supervisor Mar and Supervisor Preston suggested additional amendments to Supervisor 
Mandelman’s ordinance. Supervisor Preston’s had one main proposed amendment and that 
was to include a requirement that all projects seeking to utilize this density exception must 
have owned the property for at least 5 years prior to filing their application for a project. And 
Supervisor Mar promoted a host of amendments to Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance. 
They included his affordability requirements that he had laid out in his own ordinance and 
a few other things. Another situation where I’m very happy to go into more detail if you 
would like . . . . Yes, okay great.  
 
So, Supervisor Mar specifically proposed - 
• 
Requiring all bonus units to be affordable at 100% of AMI 
• 
Prohibiting short-term rentals of bonus units 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
• 
Setting minimum unit sizes for bonus dwelling units that match TCAC sqft 
minimums 
 
Requiring that to receive the density bonus, that the owner must sign an affidavit stating 
they’ll reside in one of the units for at least 5 years post construction 
• 
Requiring the Planning Department to produce an annual report on “Racial 
Equity and Language Access Goals and Outcomes”.  
• 
And requiring the Rent Board to maintain a list of addresses of Bonus Dwelling 
Units and base units built and publish them on their website annually. 
 
Supervisor Mandelman was not supportive Supervisor Mar’s or Supervisor ordinances which 
is where we ended up with 5 new ordinances total. So, what they did instead was triplicated 
Supervisor Mandelman’s original ordinance with his previous amendments. One of the 
duplicated files now incorporates Supervisor Preston’s requirement, and the other 
triplicated file, it contains all of Supervisor Mar’s package of amendments that I just read.  
 
So, then we have two other ordinances to discuss in terms of fourplex, that’s Supervisor 
Safai’s and Supervisor Mar’s original ordinance. Those were also both heard on Monday. So, 
just as a reminder Commissioners, you heard these ordinances earlier this year and 
recommended disapproval of both. And as a refresher, Supervisor Mar’s ordinance proposes 
to allow 4 units only when the units above the base density of the project would be offered 
at 100% AMI for both renters and owners. Supervisor Safai’s ordinance is similar except his 
affordability requirement is less severe than Supervisor Mar’s.  
 
At the hearing, Supervisor Safai introduced additional amendments to his ordinance. I am 
going to read these because I wanted to note these amendments require rereferral for your 
considerations. So, I’ll read through them but if you would like a more in-depth presentation 
on any of these amendments, I am happy to do so. Just let me know today if that is possible 
otherwise, we will go forward with waving the Commission’s right to rehear that item.  So 
the amendments that Supervisor Safai introduced to his ordinance are include:  
• 
Allowing projects to pay an in-lieu fee instead of building their affordable unit 
requirement on-site. The fee would be based on the average size of the total 
number of units, up to 740 square feet. 
• 
Allowing up to 6 units on corner lots through this program 
• 
And exempting eligible projects from 317 CUA’s so long as the property is not a 
Historic Resource 
 
So again, I will leave it to you as to whether you would like a more in-depth presentation on 
those amendments.  
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Excuse me, I have a question. Would any of those amendments have to be, especially with 
Safai’s, it sounds like it will still need to come back to the Planning Commission for 
reconsideration. Is that what I'm hearing?  
 
 
Audrey Merlone: 
Just Supervisor Safai's amendments, that I just read, because Supervisor Mar’s host of 
amendments, all of them were already part of your consideration under his original 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 13 
 
ordinance. The difference is that if Supervisor Mar's amendments do become part of 
Supervisor Mandelman's ordinance, which moves on to the Board, it will require two thirds 
vote at the Board because those amendments were the content of what you disapproved 
back in February of this year.  
 
President Tanner: 
Just to be clear. That’s the triplicated ordinance that Supervisor Mar now has. Okay great. 
 
Audrey Merlone: 
Correct. One of the triplicated ordinances. 
 
President Tanner: 
That would have to come back if it gets traction, or would not. 
 
Audrey Merlone: 
That would not have to come back but it have to get a two-thirds majority vote. And 
Supervisor Safai’s ordinance, which does have an affordability requirement, because he’s 
making these new amendments, some of which are expanding the ordinances and 
loosening the regulations and restrictions, that’s what needs to come back to the 
Commission if you would like.      
 
President Tanner: 
Great. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I do have a question to Director Hillis. How is this going to affect the Housing Element now 
that it’s on draft EIR with all of these amendments on the -- 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I mean, it would have an effect on what our baseline is and what we need to rezone for 
because we did consider allowing for fourplexes and six units on corner lots as part of the 
proposed rezoning. So, if it happens at the Board in advance is that it just shifts the need to 
rezone for those parcels and instead includes it in the base we have to have. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. So, it will still be in the timeline for the Housing Element.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
It’s just how it would reflect in the Housing Element.  
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 13 
 
Audrey Merlone: 
So, with those amendments that Supervisor Safai requested to his own ordinance, the 
Committee did agree to adopt those amendments into his ordinance and continue it to the 
call of the Chair. He, that was what the Supervisor requested, as that, he knows, that at this 
time, his ordinance doesn’t have support, but, he believes as the requirements of the 
Housing Element become more of a reality, that there could be an appetite in the future to 
move his ordinance forward. Supervisor Mar did not propose any amendments to his 
original ordinance, just to Supervisor Mandelman’s. So, after all of the new amendments 
were introduced, and the Supervisor Mandelman’s file was triplicated, the Committee 
members turned to discussion and questions. All of the Committee members were 
especially interested in the feasibility study conducted by Century Urban which was 
included in your case packets for Supervisor Mar and Safai’s ordinances, and which showed 
that even without an affordability requirement, acquiring a single-family home, 
demolishing it, and rebuilding 3-4 units on an RH lot was not likely to be financially feasible 
in most scenarios. The Committee members were critical of the timing of the study, its 
methodology, and its message.   
 
Supervisor Mar and Preston both asked questions about the Commission’s decision to 
disapprove Supervisor Mar and Supervisor Safai’s ordinances. Supervisor Preston disagreed 
with the Commission’s general plan findings of inconsistency. Supervisor Peskin continued 
to question the timing and availability of the feasibility study. Again, the feasibility study in 
question was provided as an exhibit in all case packets for Supervisor Mar and Safai’s 
ordinances.   
 
After staff responded to the Committee member’s questions, Chair Melgar tasked the 
Department with conducting further analysis in conjunction with Century Urban which 
would examine the implications for homeowners, the affordability gaps created under 
Supervisor Safai and Supervisor Mar’s ordinances, and potential financing mechanisms to 
close these gaps. So, essentially, to summarize everything that happened - the Supervisor 
Mandelman’s ordinance was triplicated. One containing Supervisor Mar’s ordinance 
amendments, one containing Supervisor Preston’s ordinance amendments. Those were 
continued to May 9th at the Land Use Committee, and Supervisor Safai’s ordinance with his 
new amendments incorporated was continued to the call of the Chair, and  Supervisor Mar’s 
ordinance which had no amendments was also continued to the call of the Chair. And that 
was Land Use. 
  
At the Full Board this week, the Landmark Designation of the Clay Theater passed its second 
read, and Adult Sex Venues passed its first read. So, again if you have any questions and 
would like to hear Supervisor Safai’s amendments as a full presentation, please just let me 
know. Thank you.