13. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. And my mother always told me I mumbled and talked 
too fast so I will slow down. So, just so you know, the Housing Element, the redraft of the 
Housing Element in response to comments we’ve received from the public in HPC are 
going to be posted on our website today by the close of business. So, that will be there for 
officially 7 days of public comment before we submit it to HCD. But obviously, we are 
looking for comment from the public and you and the board from now ‘til adoption. So, we 
will also have a document posted that will point to what has been changed significantly in 
the document. So, that will be available tomorrow. Thanks. 
 
14. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs  
 
• 220914 General Plan Amendments - Transbay Block 4 Redevelopment Project. 
Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Snyder.  
 
• 220836 Zoning Map - Transbay Block 4 Redevelopment Project. Sponsors: Dorsey; 
Mandelman. Staff: Snyder. 
 
• 220858 Disposition and Development Agreement and Air Rights Lease - Successor 
Agency to the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency Land - F4 Transbay Partners LLC 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 6, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
and Transbay Block 4 Housing Partnership, L.P. - Transbay Block 4 - $6,000,000. 
Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Snyder. 
 
This week, the Land Use Committee considered the various ordinances for the proposed 
development at Transbay Block 4. This suite of changes included a General Plan 
Amendments for a height change from 450 to 513 feet and minor adjustments to 
language around bike routing. It also included a Zoning Map Amendment to adjust the 
height map to 513-ft. 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on July 27, 2022, and recommended approval to 
the Board. 
 
This was a unique situation for the Land Use Committee. After the Planning Department’s 
transmittal to the Clerk, OCII indicated that they needed more time to negotiate with the 
Project Sponsor due to changing financial circumstances. Renegotiating would require 
taking the project back to the OCII’s Commission; however, per the Planning Code, GPA 
must be acted on by the Board within 90 days of transmittal, or they are deemed 
approved. Because the negotiations between the project sponsor and OCII were going to 
take longer than 90-days, the Land use committee ultimately recommended to the Full 
Board that the GPA be rejected. This was done with the understanding that staff would ask 
this Commission to re-initiate and re-approve the GPA when the rest of the Block 4 project 
was ready for Board action. The Zoning Map amendment was tabled.  
 
• 210866 Planning, Administrative, Subdivision Codes – Density Exception in Residential 
Districts. Sponsors: Mandelman; Melgar. Staff: Merlone. Item 7 
  
• 220997 Planning Code; Zoning Map - Rezoning Residential Districts. Sponsors: 
Mandelman; Melgar. Staff: Merlone. Item 8 
 
Also, this week, the two versions of the fourplex ordinance were back at Land Use 
Committee. These two ordinances were continued from the Committee meeting two 
weeks prior. The first ordinance included the density exception for 4 units on interior lots 
and 6 units on corner lots. The second ordinance up-zone the City's single-family districts 
to two-family zoning districts. 
 
Supervisor Mandelman spoke first. In his comments he recognized that there is likely not a 
political path forward for the ordinance that up-zones RH-1 to RH-2 because it would 
eliminate the use of SB9. He requested that the Committee continue this ordinance to the 
call of the chair. However, he did think the mayor would support the ordinance with the 
density bonus program if the four-year look-back was amended to one year. He asked the 
Committee to consider making this amendment before forwarding on to the full board. 
 
 
After some back and forth between the committee members and public comment where 
only one member of the public spoke, the Committee voted to continue the ordinance that 
up-zoned RH-1 to RH-2 to the call of the chair. They then voted to amend the density 
exception ordinance to reduce the ownership lookback from 4 years to 1 year. They then 
unanimously recommending the amended ordinance to the full board. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 6, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 11 
 
This density bonus ordinance that the Board will consider includes: 
 
· 
Allowing up to 4 units on interior lots and 6 units on corner RH lots; 
 
· 
30% rear yard for density exception projects; 
 
· 
A 3 year post construction “intent to occupy” requirement in order to receive a fee 
waiver for a Historic Resource Evaluation, or to be able to condo the new units when 
an existing building is retained; 
 
· 
A requirement that no unit to be less than 1/3 the size of the largest unit OR to provide 
at least one unit with 2+ bedrooms 
 
· 
Directing Planning to look at developing Objective residential design standards 
 
· 
Requiring rent control for bonus units 
 
· 
Requiring ownership of the property for at least 1 year prior to application 
 
The Board meeting this week was canceled this week in honor of Yom Kippur. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I have a question, Mr. Starr, no not question, more of like, can I, can we request a, some  
sort of a memo or a summary from the board's discussion on the fourplex? 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Sure. Like a summary of what I’ve said? 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah. More of a summary of what you said so that I can fully read it. 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Yes, sure. I will send that to you. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Thank you. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I actually did not receive a report for the Board of Appeals. The Historic Preservation 
Commission did meet briefly yesterday and the most significant item that they discussed 
was the continuance of the Castro Theater where they separated the Landmark 
Designation item from the Certificate of Appropriateness, continuing the Landmark 
Designation amendment to December 7th, and then continuing the Certificate of 
Appropriateness to March 15th of 2023.  
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 6, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 11