9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Great. Yes, we did have one quick announcement for you guys. We received a grant on our, 
with our Preservation team and Deputy Director, Rich Sucre, can share some details. 
 
Richard Sucre, Deputy Director of Current Planning: 
Sure. So, we're pleased to announce that we received a grant from the State Office of Historic 
Preservation to focus and produce a Native American multiple property documentation 
form. So, basically what this will do is allow us to produce a citywide document to focus on 
resources and buildings and sites associated with Native American history and give an easy 
way to nominate them for local, state, or federal designation in the future. So, this will be a 
good document for kind of bringing forward a community and giving them kind of just 
[inaudible] relative to our city. 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Great. And then just some final close up. I actually just heard back from staff, very quickly on 
the 30 Van Ness to close the loop on that, but the Commission did hear and approved the 
project at 30 Van Ness May of 2020 in the state that it's being built as. So, it was reviewed 
and approved by Commission. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 15 
 
President Tanner: 
Great. Thank you for that answer and congratulations on the grant. That's a very exciting 
project and look forward to hearing more about that, thank you. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
• 220757 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Mother’s Building in San Francisco Zoo. 
Sponsors: Melgar; Mar, Chan and Peskin. Staff: Ferguson. Item 1 
 
 
This week the Land Use Committee took up two landmark designations. The first was the 
landmark designation for the Mother’s Building, located at the SF Zoo and sponsored by 
Supervisor Melgar. Mother’s Building, constructed in 1925 for Herbert and Mortimer 
Fleishhacker to honor their mother, was donated to the city and dedicated to serve as a 
resting place for mothers and young children. It was found eligible for local designation for 
its association with women’s history as one of the only recreation sites of the period focused 
on the well-being of women during recreation activities. It is also eligible for its association 
with the history of the Works Project Administration’s (WPA) art programs of the 1930’s for 
what was the only large-scale WPA art project created solely by women; and finally for its 
architectural significance as it embodies distinctive characteristics of Italian Renaissance 
Revival architecture and is representative of the work of architect of merit George W. 
Kelham. During the hearing there were round a ½ dozen speakers all in favor of the 
designation. The committee then voted to recommend the item to the full board. 
 
• 220507 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 200 Rhode Island Street (aka Takahashi 
Trading Company). Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Westhoff. 
 
 
The next landmark designation was for the Takahashi Trading company building located at 
200 Rhode Island Street. This building is eligible for landmark designation for its association 
with Japanese American history and culture in San Francisco. Specifically, for over 50 years, 
from 1965-2019, the venue served as the headquarters of the Takahashi Trading Company, 
which imported high-caliber home goods from Japan for Takahashi retail stores. The 
Takahashi family acquired the property after their original Japantown shop was demolished 
due to a San Francisco Redevelopment Agency program; thus, the building has an 
association with the hardships faced by Japanese Americans who were forcibly displaced 
from Japantown due to redevelopment. There were not public commentors on this one, but 
Supervisor Peskin and Preston both signed on as cosponsors. The item was the 
recommended to the Full board. 
 
• 220130 Planning Code - Conditional Use Appeals. Sponsors: Melgar; Peskin, Walton, Preston 
and Ronen. Staff: Merlone. Item 4 
 
 
Lastly, the Committee heard Supervisor Medgar’s ordinance that would authorize verified 
tenants to sign onto CU appeals. Commissioners you heard this last week and recommended 
approval with modifications. The one modification was to change from 10 days to 20 the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 15 
 
time the Planning Department has to transit the Planning Commission’s action on the CU to 
the Clerk of the Board. 
 
 
During the hearing, Supervisor Melgar made a motion to incorporate the Planning 
Commission’s recommended modifications, which passed unanimously. There was one 
speaker in favor of the proposed ordinance. After public comment the item was then 
forwarded to the Full Board as a committee report with a positive recommendation. 
 
• 220446 Planning, Administrative, Subdivision Codes; Zoning Map - Density Exception in 
Residential Districts. Sponsors: Mandelman; Melgar. Staff: Merlone. Veto Override Vote, Item 
13 
 
At the Full Board this week the Board voted on whether or not to override the Mayor’s veto 
of Supervisor Mandelman’s Four-plex ordinance. As you recall, the mayor vetoed this 
ordinance last week. The ordinance originally passed on a 7-4 vote, Ih was not enough to 
sustain a mayoral veto. This week, the sponsors of the ordinance, Mandelman and Medgar, 
gave forceful defense their ordinance in an attempt to persuade at least one more supervisor 
to vote for the bill. Supervisor Peskin also derided the mayor’s veto saying he was frustrated 
that the mayor did not say specifically what about the ordinance she objected to. 
Supervisors Walton, Dorsey and Safai all spoke against the ordinance and reiterated their 
reasons for opposing it. In the end, the vote was the same 7-4 with no change in how the 
supervisor voted, killing this ordinance. 
 
 
As an outcome of this, the Group Housing SUD, which the mayor did sign last week, is now 
also dead as it was tied to the four plex ordinance as the SUD could be interpreted as a 
downzoning. 
 
• 220036 Planning Code - Electric Vehicle Charging Locations. Sponsors: Mayor; Mandelman, 
Stefani, Melgar, Mar and Dorsey. Staff: Starr. Passed First Read 
 
• 220130 Planning Code - Conditional Use Appeals. Sponsors: Melgar; Peskin, Walton, Preston 
and Ronen. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
 
• 220757 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Mother’s Building in San Francisco Zoo. 
Sponsors: Melgar; Mar, Chan and Peskin. Staff: Ferguson. Passed First Read 
 
 
The Board is on recess until September 5. Baring COVID, Monkey Pox, or some tragic weather 
event linked to climate change, I will be on vacation for your first few meetings after your 
recess. In my stead, Veronica Flores will likely be presenting these reports to you while I’m 
gone. Have a great break and I’ll see you all in mid-September. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you, Mr. Starr. Great report and we hope you have a wonderful illness free vacation. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
Good afternoon, President Tanner, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator.  
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and they considered two cases of interest to the 
Planning Commission but first, they acknowledged that Ann Lazarus had stepped down 
from the Commission and thanked her for her many years of service, and then they 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 15 
 
welcomed John Trasvina as the new Commissioner. And he has significant and diverse 
accomplishments but locally he was a former Deputy City Attorney and he is also the former 
dean of the USF School of Law. So, we're happy to have him on board on the Board of 
Appeals. They then heard the appeal for a permit at 277 Judson Street to construct a new 
ADU on the ground floor but the permit was also to repair existing exterior stairs and to 
replace windows at the front and back of the property. And back in 2015 when the permit 
was first filed, the applicant also proposed a rear and side horizontal addition and the 
appellant filed a DR citing that the extension was incompatible with the neighborhood. The 
DR was heard by the Commission in October of 2018 but ultimately the Planning 
Commission voted +5 -0 to take DR and require the depth of the extension to be reduced by 
7 ft. While the project was approved by the Planning Department in January of 2019, the 
permit was not issued. And then in 2022, it was picked back up and the owner revised the 
permit to eliminate all exterior expansion of the permit. But still, there was an appeal by the 
same neighbor who filed the discretionary review. At the appeals hearing last night, the 
appellant expressed concerns about the revised plans but because project no longer 
included any physical expansion of the building, and the ADU is permitted under the state 
ADU program, the board voted +3 -0 to deny the appeal. And similarly, they heard a case for 
a building permit at 706 Vermont Street, and that was to construct a 1-story vertical addition 
and a new green roof at the top and associated stairs. The appellant had also filed a 
discretionary review on the permit in 2020 citing that the new 3rd story addition along with 
the new green roof on top of the 3rd story addition would have light, air and privacy impacts. 
The DR was heard by this Commission in February of 2021 and the Planning Commission 
voted +7 -0 to take discretionary review and approved the project on the condition that the 
guard rails for the green roof be set back 5 ft. from the property line to the south. At the 
appeal hearing last night, the appellant requested that the guard rails and stairs to the, at 
the roof, be completely removed or set back an additional 5 ft. The board ultimately 
determined that the approved green roof and the 5 ft. setback for the guard rails were 
adequate for privacy issues and voted +3 -0 to deny the appeal. Thank you very much.