8. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just one brief announcement. I wanted to let you know 
that we sent the Draft Housing Element and all the related reports to HCD to get some 
initial comment from them. So, they're digesting it and hopefully we will have some 
feedback back from them in the next 30-60 days. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
 
Last week the Land Use Committee was canceled, and at the Full Board, Supervisor 
Mandelman’s Adult Sex Venue ordinance passed its second read. 
 
 
This week, the land use committee considered the landmark designation for 2868 Mission 
Street, known as the “Mission Cultural Center for Latino Arts”. The HPC recommended 
approval of this landmark in February of this year. 
 
 
The Center is individually eligible for listing in the National Register because of its 
association with the social and ethnic history of the Mission District as a predominately 
Latinx enclave, along with the development of Latinx arts in San Francisco in association 
with California’s Latinx cultural center movement of the 1970s. During the hearing all the 
Speakers spoke in favor of the landmark designation, several noting the importance of the 
center in their lives and community. The Committee voted unanimously to recommend 
approval to the Full Board. 
 
 
Next, the land use committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance to allow four-
plexes in RH Zoning Districts. As you know this item has been before the committee 
several times and has also been amended several times. Some of those amendments 
including requiring rent control, creating RH-2(D) zoning for existing RH-1D zoning 
districts, and allowing 6 units on corner lots. Last time this was heard, Supervisor Preston 
added an amendment that required applicants to have owned the property for at least 5 
years to address speculation concerns. This week, Supervisor Melgar proposed 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 12, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 10 
 
amendments to expand on Preston’s amendments by allowing family member that have 
inherited the property to be eligible for the program. This amendment was accepted by 
the committee. 
 
 
The Committee seems to have reconciled with the fact that adding an affordability 
requirement to this program would increase the feasibility gap, but they are still 
committed to looking at ways to somehow subsidize affordable units in these projects. So, 
I suspect conversation to continue around that issue even after this ordinance is adopted. 
 
 
After public comment, which had fewer participants this year and similar concerns 
expressed, the Committee then voted to continue the item one more week. This is in part 
because Supervisor Peskin is tying his Group Housing SUD, which could be considered a 
downzoning, to this up zoning per the requirements of state law. 
 
 
Supervisor Mar’s four-plex ordinance was also on the agenda, however, the supervisor 
asked that the item be continued to the call of the chair, which the committee did. 
 
 
And finally, there were no relevant Planning items at the Board this week. 
 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
 
Thank you. Good afternoon, President Tanner, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning 
Administrator. The Board of Appeals did meet last night and at that hearing they 
announced the resignation of Commissioner Darryl Honda and the Board thanked Mr. 
Honda for his nearly 10 years of public service and dedication on the Board of Appeals. The 
Board also heard one item of interest to the Planning Commission. The case was a 
jurisdiction request for the property at 757 Third Avenue. This project was an addition to 
an existing single-family home that the Planning Commission heard as a Discretionary 
Review way back in October of 2020 . The Commission did not take DR and the permit was 
issued in May 2021. The DR requester subsequently sold their lot that is adjacent to the 
project site after the permit had been issued and the new owners made a jurisdiction 
request to the Board of Appeals to be able to file a late appeal on the grounds that they 
were not aware of that permit being issued when they purchased the property. However, 
the Board of Appeals found that the property was, the permit was properly noticed and 
issued and the City did not prevent the appellants from filing a timely appeal. And so they 
denied a jurisdiction request. And that concludes my report. 
 
 
Rich Sucre, Acting Commission Secretary: 
 
And then finally, Commissioners, for the Historic Preservation Commission. They did meet 
at the beginning of the month on May 4th. They heard a landmark designation for City 
Cemetery which would represent one of the few landmarks that we have to associated 
with archeological events. They heard a series of Legacy Businesses and then finally had an 
informational hearing on a portion of the citywide Historic Context Statement associated 
with Architectural Planning and Preservation professionals, basically our architect bio 
context statement.