10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee  
 
• 220190 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 2261 Fillmore Street (aka Clay Theatre). 
Sponsor: Stefani. Staff: La Valley. 
 
 
This week the Planning Commission took up the landmark designation for the Clay Theatre, 
located at 2261 Fillmore Street. This designation was initiated by Supervisor Stefani who is 
also the resumed primary sponsor. The HPC unanimously recommended approval 1/19/22 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 14, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 8 
 
 
 
Clay Theatre, constructed in 1913, is culturally and historically significant as one of the city’s 
oldest single-screen movie theaters and as the first dedicated foreign film theater in San 
Francisco beginning in 1935. 
 
 
A the LUT hearing this week, the Sups Peskin and Preston joined as co-sponsors. SF Heritage, 
SF Neighborhood Theater Foundation, Pac Heights Residents and Business Associations 
spoke in support of designation. LUT recommended approval to the Full Board. 210866 
Planning, Administrative, Subdivision Codes; Zoning Map - Density Exception in Residential 
Districts. Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. 211202 Planning, Administrative Codes - 
Dwelling Unit Density Exception in Residential Districts and Rent Control of Bonus Dwelling 
Units. Sponsor: Mar. 
 
 
Also, this week, the LU Committee considered Supervisor Mandelman and Mar’s Ordinances 
that would allow for four-plexes in RH zoning Districts. You recommended approval with 
modifications for Mandelman’s ordinance and disapproval for Mars ordinance. Last time this 
was heard, Supervisor Melgar added an amendment to Mandelman’s ordinance that would 
require the new units to be rent controlled. This week, Supervisor Melgar proposed three 
new amendments to Mandelman’s ordinance. Those were to 1) require project sponsor to 
sign an affidavit they would live at the site for three years after project completion, 2) 
Require that one unit be at least 1/3 the size of the largest unit or a minimum of two 
bedrooms, and 3) to waive the historic review fee. All three of these amendments were 
versions of what the Planning Department and ultimately the Planning Commission wisely 
recommended to the Full Board. Slowly, but surely, they seem to be coming around to our 
well-thought-out amendments. 
 
 
After the amendments were adopted and public comment was heard, the Committee 
continued both items to April 26. 
 
 
Full Board  
 
• 220275 Initiating Landmark Designation - Mother’s Building, situated within San 
Francisco Zoo, 1 Zoo Road, Assessor’s Parcel Block No. 7281, Lot No. 006. Sponsor: 
Melgar. Staff: LaValley. Passed  
• 220283 Presidential Reappointment, Planning Commission - Kathrin Moore. Sponsor: 
Walton. Passed