6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm remote, so thank you for the opportunity. I don't have 
any announcements, but I know Ms. Watty had one she wanted to talk about. 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 30, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 11 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Great. Thank you, Director Hills. Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning. I just wanted to 
remind everyone about some updates relating to our pre-application requirements. If you 
recall, earlier this year in March, we were slowly starting to get back to normal during Covid. 
We had pivoted all of our required pre-application meetings to fully virtual meetings and 
we're starting to ease our way back to in-person allowing for, basically any combination 
thereof of meetings to be held. So, fully remote, hybrid, or fully in-person with a little lead 
time saying that July 1, we were going to go back to complete normal of our fully in-person 
pre-application meetings. So, I just wanted to make sure we took this opportunity to share 
with the public that our pre-application meetings will be going back to normal and 100%  
in-person starting July 1. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Can I ask Ms. Watty if there is any opportunity to continue the hybrid option, just given again 
what I've been reading about Covid and has continued to circulate, as well as just general 
convenience for those who can’t maybe get over to a physical location for the meeting? 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure. So, the pre-application policy is a Commission policy. So, we were just reverting back 
to original as the emergency order is sort of winding down here, but certainly we can 
absolutely move to hybrid. I think the crux of the issue with the digital, that was a challenge 
for many applicants as well as members of the public was when it was fully virtual, we 
required a local or a toll free phone number and as it turns out, most of the time you have 
to pay for that service and get sort of a more expensive level of Zoom. For most people that 
ended up being really challenged to implement. So, I think if we were to do hybrid, we would 
just want to say that the in-person is for folks who really have sort of a local or other 
technology limitations and we would want to make sure that the hybrid could just be 
whatever the standard free version of Zoom is. But with those parameters, I think that's a 
great pivot if that is the direction the Commission wants to go in. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah, I would support that. I think it's more a matter of -- in terms of the local number or 
not, if folks have the option to go in-person then they can do that if their technology isn’t 
supported. And then in addition, if they don't want to go in-person or aren’t able to, they do 
have the option of the hybrid. So, hopefully it will increase participation in our pre-app 
meetings. 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
 
Great. We'll go ahead and make that change and publicize that on our website. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
And it seems that Commissioner Imperial have either a question or comment about it as 
well. 
 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Yeah. I just wanted to second your opinion on that, because I think we should be mindful as 
well with the Covid rates that we have. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 30, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Okay. Wonderful. We'll make those adjustments and then get that up and updated on our 
website. Thank you, guys. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use 
 
Canceled due to the budget process. 
 
Full Board 
 
• 211300 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Group Housing Special Use District. Sponsors: 
Peskin; Melgar and Preston. Passed First Read 
 
• 220446 Planning, Administrative, Subdivision Codes; Zoning Map - Density Exception in 
Residential Districts. Sponsors: Mandelman; Melgar. Staff: Merlone 
 
Supervisor Mandelman’s fourplex ordinance had its first read this week. As you probably 
recall, this item was up for first read two weeks ago but was continued so that a drafting 
error could be corrected. This week, Supervisor Melgar introduced the clarifying amendment 
to ensure bonus units built under the program would be subject to rent control. This 
amendment was unanimously passed. 
 
Unlike most first reads at the Board, this one generated a lot of comments from the 
Supervisors. 
 
Supervisor Mandelman commented on the spirit of cooperation. He acknowledged that this 
version of his ordinance is a product of compromise. He said he believes the ordinance will 
still succeed in producing a "little bit" of new housing, adding that he hopes this legislation 
is the first step in densifying residential districts. He concluded by saying that he believes 
the City will need to take larger and faster steps to build housing in the future, but that this 
ordinance is a step in the right direction. 
 
Supervisor Safai spoke against the legislation stating he felt that the ordinance intends to 
subvert SB 9 and believes the legislation will actually make it more difficult to build housing. 
He took specific issue with the 5-year ownership requirement. He advocated for his version 
of the 4-plex ordinance, which preserves SB 9 and which will be coming back to you in July. 
 
Supervisor Dorsey stated that he would not be supporting the ordinance. He said that he 
believes the legislation falls short of the City's ambitious housing production requirements 
and that the ordinance would not produce any new housing. 
 
Supervisor Mar said that he was disappointed that his affordability provision was not 
included in the ordinance, but that he was hopeful his Housing Incentive Development 
program would create affordable housing. He stated he would be supporting the legislation. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 30, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
Supervisor Preston recognized the complicated nature of the issues, but that he did not 
understand the opposition to the ordinance. He felt that certain colleagues opposed to the 
ordinance were objecting to the rent control provision. 
 
Lastly, Supervisor Walton spoke, first clarifying that he is very supportive of rent control. He 
stated he had fundamental issues with certain aspects of the legislation and felt that the 
ordinance will obliterate existing -and therefore more affordable- housing, cause 
gentrification, increase speculation, and kill the fabric of communities. 
 
In the end the ordinance passed on a 6-4 vote with Supervisor Chan absent. Those that voted 
against the measure were Stefani, Safai, Walton, and Dorsey. Failing to get 8 votes means 
the ordinance does not have a veto proof majority, making the final passage of this 
ordinance uncertain. 
 
• 220262 Planning, Administrative Codes - Affordable Housing Code Enforcement. 
Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read