4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
 
Land Use Committee  
• 220262 Planning, Administrative Codes - Affordable Housing Code Enforcement. Sponsor: 
Mayor. Staff: Merlone. 
 
 
This week, the land use committee heard three of Mayor Breeds proposed ordinances. The 
first was the Planning Code amendment to allow MOHCD and Planning to share 
enforcement duties for inclusionary housing program and allow MOHCD to accept fines 
from their enforcement efforts. 
 
 
Commissioners, you heard this item on May 26, 2022, and recommended approval. At this 
week’s hearing, the Committee had a few questions for staff about how the enforcement 
sharing activities would work. Overall, the Supervisors were supportive of the concept, but 
did have concerns about staffing levels at MOHCD. Public comment included about a half 
dozen speakers mostly in support or expressing concerns about the affordable housing 
program. The Committee then forwarded the item to the Full Board with a positive 
recommendation.  
 
• 220036 Planning Code - Electric Vehicle Charging Locations. Sponsors: Mayor; Mandelman, 
Stefani, Melgar, Mar and Dorsey. Staff: Starr. 
 
 
Next on the docket was the mayor’s ordinance that would create land use definitions and 
regulations for EV Charging Locations and Fleet Charging. Commissioners, you heard this 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 16, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 16 
 
item on April 14, 2022, and recommended approval with modifications. Those 
modifications included: 
 
1. Require CU in all C-3 Districts for EV Charging Locations and change the code to 
make Gas Stations a CU in the two C-3 districts where they are currently principally 
permitted (C-3-G and C-3-S). 
 
2. Exempt the conversion of existing automotive uses to EV Charging from Section 
142 Screening requirements. 
 
3. Prohibit Fleet Charging in RC Districts. 
 
4. Add a new section to the Code explicitly allowing for the conversion of 
Automotive Uses to EV Charging Locations regardless of the underling zoning 
district. 
 
5. Allow Fleet Charging with Conditional Use authorization in all NC Districts except 
NC-1 and NCT-1 
 
 
The mayor’s office did include all your recommended modifications, except the one that 
proposed prohibiting Fleet Charging in RC Districts. It remains conditionally permitted. 
 
 
During the hearing, the committee members were generally supportive of the ordinance 
but did take exception to allowing Fleet Charging as an accessory use with EV Charging 
Locations. Much of the discussion was on that particular provision, which the committee 
ultimately voted to remove from the ordinance. 
 
 
Another amendment proposed by Supervisor Peskin and passed by the committee was to 
amend the definition of EV Charging locations to require more than one charging location 
for EV Charging Locations. It isn’t clear to staff why this amendment was necessary as 
having one EV Charger isn’t likely financially feasible, nor does it appear to have negative 
land use implications. 
 
 
Because the City Attorney’s office needed time to draft the amendments, the item was 
continued to the July 11 land use hearing, which due to the budget and various holidays is 
the next committee hearing date.  
 
• 211092 Planning Code - Automotive Uses; Housing Density. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. 
Flores. 
 
 
Finally, the committee took up the Mayor’s Automotive Uses; Housing Density ordinance, 
also known as Cars to Casas. This ordinance would decontrol for density on sites with an 
existing auto-oriented use. Commissioners, The Planning Commission heard this on 
December 9, 2021 and recommended approval with modifications. Those amendments 
include: 
 
1. Eliminate the RH zoning districts site eligibility provision. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 16, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 16 
 
2. Allow parcels where the last legal use was an Automotive Use to also be eligible 
for this program. 
 
3. Reduce the Legacy Business eligibility criterion from the past ten years to four 
years. 
 
4. Clarify that this program can be combined with the State Density Bonus Program. 
 
5. Require a monitoring component to understand how many units have used the 
program and where they are located. 
 
6. Perform community outreach before and after adoption. 
 
7. Consider a different shorthand title. 
 
8. Amend the Legacy Business eligibility to also consider Legacy Business 
applications that have been submitted but not yet reviewed/approved. 
 
 
The mayor included all of Commission’s recommendations in the ordinance except for 
removing the RH provision, the additional community outreach and considering a different 
shorthand title. 
 
 
The Committee previously heard this item on February 28th where there was discussion 
about the lack of heightened affordability requirements and concern regarding the loss of 
blue-collar jobs. 
 
 
During this week’ hearing, there were a handful of public comments, both in favor and in 
opposition to the Ordinance. Supporters noted the need for housing and the positives of 
seeing parking lots change into housing. Callers in opposition shared concerns regarding 
the need for increased affordability and the need to retain PDR spaces and blue-collar jobs. 
 
 
Supervisor Peskin proposed a new amendment that would remove RM and RC Districts 
from the program because of concerns over how it would impact his interim controls on 
maximizing density in those districts. The Committee accepted his amendments. It is also 
staff’s understanding that the mayor’s office was also amendable to these amendments. 
 
 
Supervisor Preston again raised questions about including higher affordability rates in 
exchange for the increased density. He also raised concerns that there was no information 
on a feasibility study or the update on one. Unfortunately, Preston’s did not feel that his 
questions were adequately answered by Planning Staff, and there was no representative 
from the Mayor’s office in attendance. The other committee members agreed with him 
and moved to continue the item to the July 11th hearing. 
 
 
Full Board  
 
• 220342 Planning Code - Fire-Damaged Liquor Stores in North Beach Neighborhood 
Commercial District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 16, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 12 of 16 
 
• 220446 Planning, Administrative, Subdivision Codes; Zoning Map - Density Exception in 
Residential Districts. Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. 
 
 
Supervisor Mandelman’s 4-plex legislation was also on the Bord calendar, but before this 
item could be voted on, Supervisor Melgar noticed an error in the ordinance at the last 
minute having to do with the rent control provision added at committee. So, this item was 
continued to June 28 hearing.  
 
• 211300 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Group Housing Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin. 
Staff: V. Flores. Continued to June 28 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There is no report from the Board of Appeals. The Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday and considered one item where they adopted recommendation for 
approval to landmark the Mother's Building in the San Francisco Zoo.