7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just quickly, we'll send you invite similar to what we were talking about, about what other 
planning departments are doing as part of our equity and action series. It's geared toward 
staff, but we'll invite you as well. We're inviting both the Seattle and Philadelphia Planning 
Directors to come and talk about their efforts around equity. So, I think that will be a lively 
discussion. It's June 7th, but we'll make sure you're on the invite list. Then second, the issue 
of POPOS came up last week, POPOS that may be closed to the public. So, we are sending 
out, thank you Ms. Watty, a letter to all owners/operators of POPOS and reminding them of 
the obligations to have these open to the public. Thank you. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Manager of Legislative Affairs. This week, the Land Use 
Committee considered the initiation of two landmark designations. The first is the Castro 
Theater. It is already a designated landmark; however, it only covers the exterior of the 
building. The revised landmark designation would cover the interior and the significance 
to the LGBTQ + community. This is taking over the management of the Castro Theater. A.P. 
Is proposing interior changes and significant operational changes. During the hearing 
about half a dozen speakers commented on the revised landmark designation, all in 
support. The committee then forwarded the initiation to the full board with a positive 
recommendation as a committee report. Continuing on the LGBTQ+ theme, the 
committee also took up the initiation of the landmark designation for Turk and Taylor 
streets. The intersection is significant because it documented the first uprising of queer 
and trans-people in 1966, three years before the stonewall riots in New York City. This 
confrontation between police officers and drag queens started at the cafeteria at the 
intersection of Turk and Taylor and spilled out on the streets. Turk and Taylor is the site of 
the Black Trans Lives Matter mural, a visual demonstration calling for awareness of the 
alarming violence perpetuated against transgender women, disproportionately impacting 
black transgender women. During public comment, eight people spoke in favor and they 
forwarded it to the Full Board with a positive recommendation. They both need to go 
through the Historic Commission and then back to the Board for committee hearings and 
votes. At the Full Board this week, the Board passed on second read, the landmark 
designation for the cultural center and the landmark designation for the Castro was also 
adopted. That concludes my report, but I'm happy to answer any questions you have.