9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Audrey Merlone: 
 
LAND USE COMMITTEE:  
 
1. Landmark Designation for City Cemetery –   
 
The landmark designation for City Cemetery, sponsored by Supervisor Chan was heard 
at Land Use Committee this week. Supervisor Chan gave a brief history of the site, 
highlighting the importance of the site to the City’s Italian, Chinese, and Scandinavian 
immigrants. If landmarked, City Cemetery would also be the first archeological 
landmarked site in the City. The Supervisor introduced several small amendments to 
ensure that the staff of the Legion of Honor would still be able to proceed with their 
standard construction processes necessary to the operation and maintenance of the 
museum.   
  
 
Planning staff gave a presentation on the City Cemetery, noting that the San Francisco 
golf alliance had expressed concern over whether the landmarking would affect the 
operations of the golf course on-site, however Planning has worked with the Rec 
&Park to ensure operations of the golf course will not be affected.   
 
 
A representative from Rec & Park and a representative from the Fine Arts Museum also 
spoke at the hearing, expressing their strong support of the landmarking.   
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 14 
 
 
There were 4 public commenters. 1 public commenter expressed concern over 
whether the golf course would be affected by the landmarking. The other 3 
commenters were in full support of the landmarking.  
 
 
Both Supervisor Melgar and Supervisor Peskin requested to be added as co-sponsors 
before the Committee unanimously passed a motion to move the landmarking with 
minor amendments to the full board with a positive recommendation.   
  
2. Tenderloin Neon Special Sign District-  
 
This Ordinance was sponsored by Supervisor Preston and would create the Tenderloin 
Neon Special Sign District and enact zoning controls for the Neon Signs. This item 
appeared in front of Planning Commission on August 25th, during which time you 
unanimously recommended approval with modifications. The modifications include:   
• Striking Neon Sign provisions that are more restrictive than the existing sign 
regulations.   
• Allowing non-complying Neon Signs to be physically removed from the building 
and returned to the property in the existing conditions.   
• Amending the proposed code language to change “blade signs” to “Projecting 
Signs.”   
• Minor clarifications for Residential Hotels: that references to signage should be 
corrected from Business Signs to Identifying Signs; and to clarify the proposed 
Projecting Sign dimensions are for the sign itself, and not actually a maximum of 
25’ from the top of the sign to the ground below.   
• And revising the "Design Guidelines" name to "Design Standards"  
   
 
Supervisor Preston included all of these modifications in an amended version of the 
legislation he presented to the Committee.  
 
 
There were 12 public comments in support of this Ordinance, including 
representatives from Tenderloin Museum, San Francisco Heritage, and SF Neon. The 
public commenters expressed support for neon signs in the Tenderloin, especially the 
ability to remove signs from the building to restore them off-site and then return them 
to the building.  
 
 
Supervisor Peskin asked to be added as a co-Sponsor before the Committee moved to 
amend the Ordinance as described above. Because these amendments were 
considered substantive, the item was continued to next week on September 19th.  
   
3. Extension of Interim Controls for RTO, RM, RC Districts-  
 
The last item at Land Use this week was a proposal sponsored by Supervisor Peskin to 
extend interim controls that require Conditional Use authorization for large residential 
projects in RTO, RM, and RC districts. These interim controls have been in place for 18 
months.   
 
 
Supervisor Peskin proposed to extend the interim controls for 6 months (jan 2023), 
along with making one minor amendment to the existing controls. That amendment 
would grant an exception for the CUA requirement for projects proposing minor 
expansions of existing units where the project is proposing to add a dwelling unit AND 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 14 
 
no unit would be more than 3,000sqft AND no resulting unit would be less than 50% 
the size of the largest unit in the building. Supervisor Peskin stated their office is 
working on permanent controls, which they plan to bring forward before the interim 
controls expire in January. Planning staff has been working collaboratively with 
Supervisor Peskin’s office on the development of these controls. We look forward to 
bringing the proposed legislation to you for your consideration sometime later this 
year.   
 
FULL BOARD:   
 
 
The Landmark Designation of 200 Rhode Island Street (aka Takahashi Trading Company) 
passed its final read.   
  
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Board of Appeals met last night and considered two cases of interest to the Planning 
Commission. First, they heard the appeal of a building permit for 95 St. Germain St to 
construct a new elevator and garage at the front of the building. The original variance for 
this project was denied by the Zoning Administrator, but then approved by the Board of 
Appeals in 2017 per specific revisions to the project. The building permit for the project 
came before the Commission in 2019 as a Discretionary Review, and the Commission voted 
unanimously to not take DR and approve the permit. This issue has since been in litigation 
between the neighboring property owners regarding a shared easement and the new 
elevator’s placement, and last night’s hearing was an appeal of the building permit to 
construct the project. The Appellant claimed the permit would violate the easement and 
was inconsistent with the judge’s litigation order. While the Planning Department took no 
position on the easement and litigation issues, the Board expressed concerns that the 
permit may be inconsistent with the judge’s order, and they voted to uphold the appeal 
and deny the building permit, with an understanding that a new permit may be filed once 
the easement and litigation issues are fully settled.  
  
 
The second case of interest to the Commission was the appeal of the Large Project 
Authorization issued by the Commission on July 28th of this year for the project at 925 
Bryant St, which was a 7-story, 218-bedroom group housing, State Density Bonus Project 
that also fronts on Langton St. The same neighbors on Langton St that opposed the project 
at the Planning Commission hearing also filed the appeal and raised many of the same 
issues to the Board, which included concerns over the height and size of the property, and 
having the vehicular entrance on Langton St instead of Bryant St. Ultimately, the Board 
found that the Planning Commission had not erred or abused their discretion in granting 
the project approval, and voted unanimously to deny the appeal.