6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Commissioner Imperial, I hope you’re feeling okay and 
have a speedy recovery. I just want to – one quick update with when you’ll have the Office 
Allocation. I was going to mention that to next week, I think we’re going to do it under 
Director’s Comments. Bottom line is there’s about 200,000 square feet and how will it be 
available in allocation for office uses. So, we’ll hear more about that next week.  And then 
also, Commissioner Diamond, you asked for a hearing around our work around economic 
recovery especially around downtown, and I just wanted to let you know we’re working on 
scheduling that hearing. We think it’s important to also have OEWD and perhaps some 
other agencies as part of that. They are leading the city’s effort in this work. Obviously, 
we’re a major partner with them in that so hopefully we’ll have that in December or 
January. If you remember, the mayor issued a press release along with OEWD talking about 
recovery and their focus in about five areas – filling vacancies and diversifying industries 
and uses downtown, enhancing downtown vibrancy which relates primarily to the public 
realm but goes broader, maintaining a clean and safe downtown, improving access to 
downtown, and growing our labor force. And then within that framework, we, as the 
Planning Department, are  very much focused on questions around the future of office and 
economic diversification, expanding opportunities for housing downtown whether they’re 
new buildings or conversions of existing commercial buildings, the public realm, in 
increasing the vibrancy of the public realm and then a specific look at Union Square. So, 
we’ll have more on that but just a preview and that will be, probably in December or 
January. Thanks. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There is no report from the Board of Supervisors or the Board of Appeals this week. 
However, Mr. Starr did request that I convey that Supervisor Mandelman’s fourplex 
ordinance did pass on its second read last week. The Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday, and they took up the Legacy Business Registry application for The Condor 
for a second time. After some deliberation, a recommendation for approval was adopted. 
They also adopted a recommendation for approval for the St. James Presbyterian Church at 
240 Leland Avenue and then adopted a Citywide Historic Context Statement for San 
Francisco Neighborhood Commercial Buildings circa 1865 – 1965.