4. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. No formal announcements but welcome Commissioner 
Braun, happy to have you with us. And welcome back Commissioner Tanner. 
 
5. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Welcome back everyone. It’s unusual to see you all out 
here.  So, this week’s Land Use Committee was cancelled. However, last week they did hold 
one and you weren’t here. 
 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 29, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
 
Land Use Last Week  
• 220643 Planning Code - Tenderloin Neon Special Sign District. Sponsors: Preston; 
Peskin and Melgar. Staff: V Flores 
 
 
First on last week’s land use agenda was the Tenderloin Neon Sign District, sponsored by 
Supervisor Preston. Commissioners, you heard this item on August 25 and voted to 
recommend approval with modifications. Those modifications included: 
 
1. Strike Neon Sign provisions that are more restrictive than existing sign regulations. 
 
2. Allow legal, noncomplying Neon Signs to be physically removed from the building and 
returned for maintenance purposes. 
 
3. Amend the proposed Code language to change “blade signs” to “Projecting Signs”. 
 
4. For Residential Hotels, clarify that: 1) these signs are considered Identifying Signs and 
2) Projecting. 
 
 
All your amendments were included in the revised version of this ordinance on September 
12th and the item was then continued one week to September 19th. On the September 
19th hearing the revised ordinance was heard again. This time there were no public 
commentors and the item was forwarded to the Full Board as a committee report.  
 
• 220041 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Production, Distribution, and Repair Uses. 
Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Shaw 
 
 
Next was Supervisor Walton’s ordinance that would remove the Industrial Protection Zone 
so that the underling PDR controls would govern the land use in that area. The ordinance 
would also Social Service and Philanthropic uses to exceed 5,000 sq. ft. Commissioners, 
you heard this item on March 24th of this year and voted to recommend approval with 
modification. That modification was to allow a grandparenting clause for Self-Storage 
Facilities. This amendment was added to the final ordinance at the Land Use Committee. 
During the hearing, there were no public commenters, and the item was forwarded to the 
Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
• 210866 Planning, Administrative, Subdivision Codes - Density Exception in Residential 
Districts. Sponsors: Mandelman; Melgar. Staff: Merlone 220997 Planning Code; Zoning 
Map - Rezoning Residential Districts] Sponsors: Mandelman; Haney 
 
 
Last but certainly not least, the Committee again considered Supervisor Mandelman’s four-
plex ordinance. As you probably recall, the mayor vetoed the original ordinance that would 
have rezone all RH-1 districts to RH-2 and allow four units on interior lots and six units on 
corner lots. This density exception also came with limitations though. Applicants had to 
have owned the property for 5 years before they could take advantage of the density 
bonus. This is one reason why the mayor vetoed the ordinance, as it significantly limited 
the number of housings units the city would get out of the program. Also at issue was the 
rezoning from RH-1 to RH-2 to avoid SB9. While rezoning would technically allow the same 
number of units as SB9 without subdivision, it did not come with any process 
improvements. Projects maximizing density would still be subject to Planning Code 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 29, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
Section 317 and DR’s, while projects under SB 9 would not. If you recall, Planning Staff and 
the Planning Commission recommended rezoning from RH-1 to RH-2 and included process 
improvements to avoid Section 317. The Board however did not take this 
recommendation. 
 
 
At Land Use, Supervisor Mandelman split his ordinance into two pieces, one to allow four-
plexes and one to allow the density bonus program, in the hope that this would allow the 
density bonus to receive a veto proof majority at the Board. 
 
 
The Committee added language to the ordinance’s findings expressing concern about 
speculative development and discussed whether they should eliminate or reduce the 5-
year holding period. In the end the item was continued to October 3rd to allow further 
conversations on this point. 
 
 
Full Board This Week  
• 220643 Planning Code - Tenderloin Neon Special Sign District. Sponsors: Preston; 
Peskin and Melgar. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED SECOND READ  
 
• 220654 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - City Cemetery. Sponsors: Chan; 
Melgar, Peskin and Mar. Staff: Ferguson. PASSED SECOND READ  
 
• 220041 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Production, Distribution, and Repair Uses. 
Sponsor: Walton. Staff: Shaw. Passed First Read  
 
• 220905 Mayoral Reappointment, Planning Commission - Rachael Tanner. Sponsor: 
Mayor. Staff: N/A. Adopted 220906 Mayoral Appointment, Planning Commission - 
Derek Braun. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: N/A. Adopted 
 
 
Full Board Last Week  
• 220895 Interim Zoning Controls - Extending and Modifying Requirements for Large 
Residential Projects in RC, RM, and RTO Districts. Sponsors: Peskin; Chan. Adopted  
 
 
 
That concludes my report and I’m happy to take questions. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Board of Appeals met last night.  JR Eppler attended his first hearing, replacing 
Commissioner Tina Chang on the Board. 
 
 
The Board heard one case of interest to the Planning Commission - an appeal to a 2019 
permit for 945-947 Minnesota Street.   
 
 
The permit is to replace damaged front stairs, windows, and exterior siding.  The permit is 
to also infill the open area beneath an existing three-story rear extension and construct a 
new roof deck The property is a contributing structure in the Dogpatch Landmark District. 
 
 
The appellant is the neighbor to the rear and his concerns are about legality of the existing 
three-story rear extension.  He believes the extension needs to be torn down since there is 
no building permit found for it.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, September 29, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
 
 
The Discretionary Review and Rear Yard Variance requests for the project were heard on 
October 22, 2020.  The Planning Commission voted to not take Discretionary Review and 
approved the project.  The Zoning Administrator approved the Variance on December 2, 
2020.  
 
 
The neighbor/DR requestor/appellant subsequently appealed the Variance to the Board of 
Appeals.  On January 27, 2021, the Board of Appeals voted to deny the appeal and uphold 
the ZA's issuance of the Variance.   
 
 
Since then, unpermitted work has taken place on the property.  Joint site inspections 
between Planning and DBI revealed that the three-story rear extension has been illegally 
removed and rebuilt.  DBI has issued a Stop Work Order for the property.  
 
 
At the appeal hearing last night, Board took the Department's recommendation and voted 
4-0 to grant the appeal and revoke the permit on the basis that the permit was improperly 
issued.   
 
 
The permit and plans contained inaccurate information.  There is also evidence of 
excessive demolition as confirmed by the site inspections.   
 
 
Moving forward, the project will require a new Certificate of Appropriateness, a new Rear 
Yard Variance, and a new permit to capture all of the unpermitted work done and new 
work proposed on the property.   
 
 
Commissioners, I mentioned that the Historic Preservation Commission did not meet 
yesterday but we did not have a hearing on the 22nd and they did meet on September 21st 
so I will give you that briefing now. They adopted a resolution supporting the board of 
supervisor's resolution urging that the San Francisco Rec and Park develop and install and 
interpretative signage regarding the dark history at Sharp Park. They also adopted 
recommendations for approval for a number of legacy business registry applications - 
Blazing Saddles Bike and Rental Tours on Hyde Street, the Mariposa Hunter’s Point Yacht 
Club on Terry Francois Boulevard, the Larkins Brothers Tire Company on South Van Ness 
Avenue, Hotel Bohème on Columbus Avenue, Café La Bohème on 24th Street, Club Deluxe 
on Haight Street. And that concludes those updates and reports.