6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. As you know, we are heading back to the office next week. 
Most staff, or all staff for a minimum of two days a week. So, that happens starting on 
Monday, but I just again wanted to highlight those who have been coming into the office 
over the past two years because a handful of our staff have been doing that throughout the 
pandemic. Our office management team, folks from IT team, and Reception and dealing 
with mail, our Enforcement team has been going out doing site visits, and the staff that 
provide the public with information and taking permits in this building down at the Permit 
Center. So, I just want to again, I know we have thanked them in the past, but thank them 
for all of their work during the past two years. And for everybody really for keeping things 
going over these past couple of years. I know it's been challenging, but relatively successful. 
So, thanks to our team for doing that. And that's all I have. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
I don't have any questions, but I'll just second that it's been great to see the staff keep 
performing admirably. And we're very excited that folks are coming back. I know there's 
probably a lot of mix emotions about it but I'm very excited to see that and see also so many 
City leaders and industries committing to coming back in March. And I am hoping that it's 
all for the best for our city and for our workforce. So, thank you all of your hard work during 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 12 
 
this time. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I just wanted to say for those Commissioners who were not there two years ago, there was 
another herculean effort because the Department moved from one building to the other. 
Packed up and run and moved into a completely new unknown environment. And that was 
one of the most amazing feats that happened and it was just incredibly well done and thank 
you to everyone for that. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Can I just make -- Ms. Watty is here too and we're changing some of our, the way we've 
taken-- that we do pre-application meeting. So, Liz if you're here, do you want to talk about 
those changes that are coming up? 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Sure, happy to. Thanks for the time. Starting next Monday, since we will all be coming back 
to the office, we are also updating our pre-application procedures. As you guys know, when 
we all went into sheltering from home and working from home, we asked applicants to 
conduct their pre-application meetings entirely remotely so that everyone could stay safe. 
We have received a lot of feedback from members of the public and community 
organizations where they really want to get back to an in-person option at least for pre-
application meetings.  So, we're easing our way back into getting fully back to in-person as 
part of the conversation you all just had. So, starting next Monday, we are allowing 
applicants to do either - either remote, in-person, or a hybrid system. Should they choose to 
do any element of remote, they'll need to follow all of the remote protocols that we've had 
in place over the last two years, including a local or a toll-free phone number to call in. So, 
there's a little bit of flex period of time starting Monday through the end of fiscal year, end 
of June. And starting July 1, our plan is fully back to in-person pre-application meetings. So, 
I just wanted to let members of the public know that we are going to start easing back in on 
Monday with a full in-person pre-application requirement kicking back in July 1. And that's 
all. Thank you. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Can I ask for that requirement to come back in-person? I'm just curious about the motivation 
for that. It would seem that there could be some efficiency from folks not having to come in 
or there is something that gets lost when folks are not seating and across the table from one 
another in those pre-application meeting. Maybe it's just the apparatus that host the virtual 
is challenging. 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
A lot of the feedback that we've had from community folks is that they really miss having 
that in-person interaction, especially at the project site, which is typically the requirement, 
at the project site or within a close proximity. So, that's the direction that we have. Certainly, 
the pre-application requirement is a Commission policy, it's not codified. So, if this is 
something, as we approach July, that the Commission wants to take a different approach or 
receive feedback from the public of meeting in hybrid option in perpetuity. But it has been 
a bit of a struggle with the Department enforcing all of the rules for remote pre-application 
meetings. It's been a lot of struggles with folks identifying what is a local phone number, 
etc. So, being able to kind of take that off the table and just get back to requiring people to 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
show up in person seems like a streamlined way to maintain this requirement, but again, it's 
your policy. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah, I think it's something that we can take a look at. I'm mainly thinking from the 
perspective of a neighbor who can't come at that specific time. You know, how, is there an 
option for recording or for some type of interaction for the interested member, the 
community, but who, that time or the location makes it infeasible. Maybe they're 
commuting home or things like that. So, definitely something we could kind of keep looking 
at but certainly understand like having the option to be in person. I am certainly happy that 
it would go that direction to have that option. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
The one thing I would add, also examine in terms of social equity and accessibility, 
technology in particular. You need to have a reasonably well functioning computer, 
including all of the proper light, etcetera to effectively participate in an online. And again, I 
have not been in that situation, but I'm sure staff has been very closely looking at that 
because we really need to keep that in the forefront of how we'll move forward. And that 
maybe indeed hybrid is the best because then people can go either way. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
So here we can take notes on how this new version unfolds and then we can use that to see 
what might be best for the future. So, thank you for the update. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
Land Use 
• 220009 Planning Code - Landmark Designation -1801 Green Street (aka Golden Gate 
Valley Carnegie Library). Sponsor: Historic Preservation Commission. Staff: Bishop.  
 
 
 
First on the Land Use agenda this week was the landmark designation of the Golden Gate 
Valley Carnegie Library located at 1801 Green Street in Cow Hollow. The library is significant 
for its association with patterns of social and cultural history in San Francisco, specifically 
with the Carnegie Library Grant Program. It is also an example of an institutional building 
designed by master architect Ernest Coxhead. The building displays the distinctive 
characteristics of the Neoclassical style as associated with the City Beautiful movement. 
 
 
This library has been on the Department’s work plan since 1999, when six other Carnegie-
bult libraries were also added. In November of last year, the HPC initiated landmark 
designation for 1801 Green Street, and in December recommended it for landmark 
designation to the Full Board.  
 
 
At the hearing this week there was only one public commenter who expressed concerns 
over the language used to call out the character defining features of the property. The 
committee members expressed full support of the designation and recognition of the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
significance of the property. At the end of the hearing the committee unanimously 
recommended approval of the Landmark Designation. 
 
• 211021 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - 447 Battery Street (aka Jones-
Thierbach Coffee Company Building. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley.  
 
 
The Committee also considered the landmark designation for 447 Battery Street. Faithful 
listeners of the Board Report will remember that this was originally heard at the Land Use Ie 
in November of last year when was tabled by Supervisor Peskin.  
  
 
The HPC recommended approval of Landmark designation in August 4, 2021 of last year 
after receiving a Resolution initiating designation from the BOS. The HPC found that 447 
Battery Street, constructed in 1907, was culturally and historically significant for association 
with the San Francisco coffee industry, a significant commercial sector in San Francisco 
during the second half of the nineteenth century and the first decades of the twentieth 
century, and with reconstruction of downtown San Francisco following the 1906 earthquake 
and fires. The HPC also found that the building was not, repeat, not architecturally 
significant and recommended that the “three-story height and roughly rectangular 
footprint” be removed from the list of character-defining features. 
 
 
After Peskin reactivated the landmark designation ordinance for 447 Battery it was brought 
back to LUT this week and was unanimously recommended to full BOS for approval 
consistent with HPC’s recommendation. 
 
• 211207 Housing Development Incentive Program for Homeowners Sponsors: Mar; 
Melgar. Staff: Small. 
 
 
Next the Land Use Committee held a hearing on Supervisor Mar’s Resolution to Develop an 
Incentive Program for Homeowners. The purpose of the program to help middle-, 
moderate-, and low-income homeowners expand their houses to duplexes, triplexes and 
fourplexes—including ADUs. This help is intended to be technical and financial assistance 
from preparation through construction, including city-backed loans or grants or free access 
to design and technical professionals.  
 
 
Kimia Haddadan from Planning presented how the proposed program is in line with the 
draft Housing Element policies and a representative from ASIAN Inc. presented on the ADU 
Pilot program recently completed that was sponsored by Sup. Mar in partnership with ASIAN 
Inc. 
  
 
There was not a lot of public comment, but some of the commentors suggested that the 
program should be grants not just loans.  
 
 
There were some questions from the Supervisors about replacing the Sensitive 
Communities Map with the Urban Displacement Map. The former is no longer active, and 
the latter has better and more updated data. The Committee then voted to recommend the 
Resolution to the Full Board.  
  
 
Planning Staff is following up with Sup. Mar’s office to coordinate with MOHCD on how to 
fund and implement the program. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 12 
 
 
• 211299 Planning Code - Group Housing Definition. Sponsors: Peskin; Walton and 
Mandelman. Staff: Starr.  
 
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would amend the 
definition of Group Housing. Commissioners, you heard this item on February 10 and 
recommended approval with modifications. 
 
 
At the hearing Supervisor Peskin made a motion to amend the ordinance to include a 
significant portion of the Commissions recommended modifications. Of note, he did not 
include the recommendation to create a carve-out for Student Housing so that they could 
have full kitchens.  
 
 
During public comment, there were a lot of speakers, and their testimony was like that at 
the Planning Commission. Some commentors talked about the need to for the proposed 
amendments, while others expressed concern that this would eliminate a viable housing 
model from the city. Representatives from USF also spoke about the need for a carve-out.  
 
 
In the end the Committee did vote to amend the ordinance to include Supervisor Peskin’s 
modifications; however, hey needed to continue the item because the amendments were 
deemed substantive.   
 
• 211092 Planning Code - Automotive Uses; Housing Density. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr. 
Item 6 
 
 
Lastly the Committee considered the mayor’s ordinance, too cleverly named Cars to Casas. 
You heard item on December 9 of last year and voted to recommend approval with 
modifications. Those modifications included: 
1. Eliminate the RH zoning districts site eligibility provision.  
2. Allow parcels where the last legal use was an Automotive Use to also be eligible for 
this program.  
3. Reduce the Legacy Business eligibility criterion from the past ten years to four years.  
4. Clarify that this program can be combined with the State Density Bonus Program.  
5. Require a monitoring component to understand how many units have used the 
program and where they are located. 
6. Perform community outreach before and after adoption. 
7. Consider a different shorthand title.  
8. Amend the Legacy Business eligibility to also consider Legacy Business applications 
that have been submitted but not yet reviewed/approved.  
 
Prior to the hearing the sponsor included most of the Commission’s recommendations, 
except the elimination of the shorthand title.  
 
 
During the hearing, the presentation was given by yours truly with an introduction by 
Andres Power from the mayor’s office. There were about 20 commentors, it was about 
evenly split between those in support and those in opposition.  During the hearing the 
Supervisors had questions about adding rent control and increasing the inclusionary 
amounts. They also needed additional clarification regarding the removal of the CU to 
convert Automobile Service Stations. Supervisor Peskin had proposed amendments 
intended to ensure his interim controls that require maximize density in certain district 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 12 
 
would not be impacted by this ordinance. Supervisor Melgar’s comments were mostly 
supportive and said that she hoped this program would bring more inclusionary units to her 
district. Because Peskin’s amendments were not ready, and because there was a desire to 
explore increased inclusionary amounts for this program, the Committee continue the item 
to the call of the chair. Next week’s hearing was too full to continue it one week.  
 
 
I would note that our current inclusionary amounts do consider properties that have had 
their density decontrolled, and that anything above our current rates will like make project 
infeasible. 
 
 
Full Board 
• 210116 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Central Neighborhoods Large Residence Special 
Use District. Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
 
• 210898 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - One Montgomery Street (aka 1-25 
Montgomery Street) (Crocker National Bank Building). Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. 
Passed First Read 
 
• 211236 Planning Code - Massage Establishment Zoning Controls. Sponsors: 
Mandelman; Ronen and Preston. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read 
 
• 220037 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - “Allegory of California,” The City Club 
of San Francisco (formerly Pacific Stock Exchange Luncheon Club), 155 Sansome Street 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. Passed First Read 
 
• 220031 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental Review - 
Proposed 2000 Oakdale Avenue Project.  
 
 
This week the Board also took up the CatEx Appeal for 2000 Oakdale Avenue. The appeal 
was filed by Michael Lozeau on behalf of Libkra Investments Corp. The project consists of 
interior tenant improvement work to establish a cannabis retail business with no on-site 
smoking. The project would not include any structural work to the existing building. 
 
 
Concerns raised by appellant included that the project does not comply with the planning 
code regarding the type and amount of retail proposed on site; the potential for cannabis-
related odor impacts; and that the CEQA review did not include mitigation measures to 
prevent any environmental impacts. 
 
 
Members of the public in support of the appeal expressed concerns regarding potential odor 
impacts and concerns that the CEQA review was not thorough enough. Members of the 
public that spoke in opposition to the appeal and in support of the project expressed that 
the planning department adequately reviewed the project under CEQA, and that the city 
should encourage and support minority-owned businesses. 
 
 
Notably there were no comments or questions from the Supervisors during the hearing, and 
once public comment was over, they quickly voted to uphold the CEQA determination and 
deny the appeal.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 3, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 12 
 
• 211207 Housing Development Incentive Program for Homeowners Sponsors: Mar; 
Melgar. Staff: Small. Adopted 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
There is a report from the Board of Appeals. They met last evening and heard an appeal of 
the cannabis retail establishment at 2000 Oakdale Avenue and some tenant improvements 
to an existing light industrial building in a PDR 1-B Zoning District. You heard this matter as 
a DR on December 9, 2021, and the DR requester basically cited concerns about odor 
impacts. After hearing, the Commission voted unanimously to not take discretionary review 
and approve the project. A CEQA appeal was then heard by the Board of Supervisors on 
March 1st. The appellant cited the same concerns related to odor impacts and the lack of 
adequate environmental review. After hearing public testimony, the Board of Supervisors 
voted unanimously 10-0 to deny the appeal and uphold the Department CEQA exemption. 
Last night at the Board of Appeals, the appellant reiterated his concerns about odor impacts. 
And again, after hearing public testimony, the Board of Appeals voted 4-0 to deny the 
appeal and uphold the permit on the basis that the Department properly reviewed and 
approved the permit.