12.
Director’s Announcements
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
Good afternoon. Welcome back Commissioner Ruiz. Today is also, you know, we’re
recognizing our, as Jonas said, our future planners. So, our interns are here today, if you all
want to stand up that would be great. Don’t be shy. Steve Vettel, stay seated. So, this year
we have 40 Planning interns for this summer. All are being paid and generously, thanks to
San Francisco’s Minimum Wage Ordinance. 16 college interns, 24 high school interns. For
the college internship, we have received over 900 applications and letters of interest, so it’s
a great crowd who’s here. They are working on all facets of what we do from housing
element implementation to making recommendation to make the Mills Act more
equitable, Historic Resource Context Statements, Parklets, Transportation Element, etc. So,
a ton of great work they are doing. And our Young Planners Program, which is the high
school program, we’ve grown over the years. Again, now 24 interns. I want to thank
Opportunities For All which helps fund the high school program and more focuses on San
Francisco public schools. So, it’s been a great partnership with Opportunities For All and
our high school. I want to thank Commissioner Chan who was here and led the effort and
pushed up to advance that program and make it more robust. I know when I was in high
school, I had no idea what a Planner did, but I love cities and living in cities, and so
hopefully this is giving those in high school opportunities to know what we do and how
they can be the future Claudia Flores’s that impact communities and work with
communities on their dreams and hopes for the city, So, thank you. I also wanted to
recognize Tina Tam who runs this program on top of her job also as Deputy Zoning
Administrator and does a wonderful job in making this a successful program. So, thank you
Tina.
President Tanner:
Wow, it’s really great to have you all here. Are they going to stay here for the entire
hearing or just a little bit? 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
You don’t have to.
President Tanner:
I will tell you this one story of my very first job out of grad school, I had a, was in a
program, a government program, and I had to go to every City Council meeting for a year.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, July 13, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 10 of 16 
So, I learned a lot. Look where I am now. So, just to say stay around, you might learn 
something. But seriously, welcome to the Department. Hopefully you’re having a good 
summer and we just hope you learn something whether you do decide to go to Planning 
or just learn how to be an engaged citizen involved in planning and land use. This stuff 
affects you whether it’s for your job or just for whatever city or town or even rural area you 
live in. Land Use and Planning is all around you. So, again welcome. And thank you, Tina. I 
know this is a lot of work, but you do it with as a labor of love and thank you so much for 
your service again. 
13.
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic
Preservation Commission
Dan Sider:
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Dan Sider with Department Staff, standing in for Aaron
Starr who couldn’t be with us today. We had a very very busy week at the Board—given
your calendar today I’ll give you a high-level overview of what happened and if you’d like
details, please just ask.
This week, the Land Use Committee considered changes associated with the Port’s
Waterfront Plan Update. These changes refreshed portions of the General Plan, amended
and expanded the Waterfront SUD, and adjusted the Waterfront Design Advisory
Committee. Commissioners, YOU considered these items on April 20 and recommended
approval.  The Committee echoed your action. They had no comments or questions, no
one spoke during public comment, and they voted to recommend the items to the full
Board.
Next, the Committee considered Supervisor Preston’s Planning Code and Zoning Map
changes related to the height of the proposed tower at 98 Franklin Street and to enable
the construction of off-site affordable housing for that tower at 600 McAllister Street.  YOU 
heard this item on March 30 and voted to recommend approval.  Here too, members of the
Committee had no questions or comments and they voted unanimously to recommend
the item to the Full Board. That matter is also at the Government Audit and Oversight
Committee RIGHT NOW, for their review.
Next, the Committee considered President Peskin’s Ordinance that generally permits
Health Services in the Polk Street NCD and would also clean-up provisions related to
Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments. You heard this item on June 15 and recommended
approval. At the Committee, Supervisor Preston signed on as a co-sponsor, and the
Committee voted to recommend the item to the Full Board as a Committee Report.
Lastly at Land Use, the Committee took up Supervisor Melgar’s Family Housing
Opportunity SUD. In broad terms, this proposal would increase housing density and ease
restrictions in well-resourced neighborhoods, while also subjecting newly enabled units to
rent control. You heard this item on June 1 and recommended approval with a number of
modifications. I’m happy to say that nearly all of those modifications were incorporated by
the Supervisor. There was a good deal of discussion and additional changes were made to
enhance tenant protections and demolition safeguards, and to protect historic resources.
Supervisor Engardio described his package of further amendments that would allow
bigger, denser buildings on corner lots--- just as he did at the Planning Commission

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, July 13, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 11 of 16 
hearing last month.  Public comment was plentiful and was a mixed-bag, and ultimately 
the Board voted to duplicate the file. The duplicated file will include Supervisor Engardio’s 
amendments – along with a few others - and will be re-referred to you, while the original 
file was continued to next week’s Committee hearing. 
And with that, the Full Board also heard two items of particular note. The first was the 
amnesty program for existing unpermitted awnings. This was sponsored by the Mayor, 
President Peskin and Supervisors Chan and Preston. This passed on 2nd read. And on 1st 
read, the Board also passed President Peskin’s Polk Street Health Service and Tobacco 
Establishment legislation that I mentioned earlier. 
And with that, Commissioners, I thank you for your time and I’m happy to answer your 
questions.