7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just to piggyback on Commissioner Diamond’s comment, 
that was in part sponsored by the Union Square Association and then I think they felt 
strongly that it was a success as well. But they would like to come at some point and talk to 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 9, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13 
 
us, the Commission. Not just about the work we are doing work with them, you know, 
zoning related work, but they are obviously have a broader focus on an economic 
development focus. So, we will calendar them. You know, working with President Tanner 
to come and talk to the Commission about their overall efforts.     
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah. I think we’d welcome that for sure. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
220878 Planning, Building Codes - Penalties for Code Enforcement. Sponsors: Ronen; 
Peskin and Chan. Staff: Merlone.  
 
This week, the Land Use Committee considered the Code Enforcement ordinance 
sponsored by Supervisor Ronen. Commissioners, you heard this item on January 19th of 
this year and voted to approve the legislation with modifications. Your recommended 
modifications were: 
  
1. require the Department to record Notices of Violation where a penalty will be 
imposed against the property’s title, instead of requiring the Department to serve 
notices to new property owners when titles transfer.  
2. Add language to state that the one-time fines of either up to $250k for loss of 
residential units, or up to $500k for the damage/loss of a historic structure fine is 
triggered when an NOV is issued. 
3. Remove the 5-year prohibition on construction for violations of Sec. 176(c)(1)(C). 
4. Amend the ordinance so that adding more than three units would be subject to 
the $250,000 fine instead of acing two units; and  
5. Encourage the Board of Supervisors to consider a lower limit from the proposed 
$50,000 minimum amount that the Board of Appeals may lower illegal 
demolitions or addition of residential units cases to that are appealed to them. 
  
Supervisor Ronen incorporated all but one of the Commission’s modifications for the 
Committee to consider. The modification that she did not take being the final 
recommendation to lower the limit that the Board of Appeals may assess illegal demolition 
cases.  
  
There was little discussion among the Committee members, and only one public 
commentor who was in favor of the proposed ordinance.  The Committee voted 
unanimous to send the item to the Full Board with a positive recommendation. 
 
210585 Planning Code - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: 
Mayor. Staff: V. Flores.  
Continued to March 13. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 9, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 7 of 13 
Full Board 
221261 Planning Code, Zoning Map - The Village Special Use District. Sponsor: Mayor. 
Staff: Westhoff.  
Passed First Read 
230232 Initiating Landmark Designation - Colombo Market Arch. Sponsors: Peskin; Stefani. 
Staff: TBD 
Adopted