6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Congratulations. Just a quick item on the Housing Element. We are expected to be at Land 
Use next Monday and then at the full board on Tuesday and then hopefully approval by 
the full board on the 31st. We’re also hoping to get a what’s called a pre-certification letter 
from HCD, hopefully this week, that we’ll have before the board hearings and then 
subsequently certification as soon as HCD can do it after January 31st. So, we’ll keep you 
updated on that, if we do get those letters, we’ll let you know and send them to the 
Commission.  Thanks. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you and we’re, got our fingers crossed to have everything go smoothly. 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
There is no report from the Board of Supervisors or the Board of Appeals, but the Historic 
Preservation Commission did meet yesterday, and they continued their Election of Officers 
until a replacement for Commissioner Johns is seated. But under the Regular Calendar, 
they adopted recommendations for approval for several Legacy Business Registry 
applications – Tony Nik’s Café in North Beach on Stockton Street, Peña Pachamama on 
Powell Street, as well as La Mejor Café on 24th Street, were all moved forward to the Office 
of Small Business with recommendations for approval. They also heard the same 
presentation you will hear later today on the Planning Code Enforcement Overview and 
adopted a recommendation for approval for the proposed Planning Code Amendment 
with staff’s modifications. They then took, or they reviewed and commented on the draft 
EIR for the Stonestown project at 20th Avenue. They heard an Informational Presentation 
on the Citywide Cultural Resources Survey Update, and then finally adopted a historic 
context statement for the Flats and Small Apartment Buildings (1915-1978) as well as the 
Progressive Era and Early Revival Styles (1890 – 1930).