8. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
9. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr manager of Legislative Affairs  
 
Land Use 
 
230701 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores. Item 1 
 
231221 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores. Item 2 
 
This week the land use committee considered the mayor’s ordinance “Citywide Expansion of Allowable 
Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses.” Both the original file and the duplicated file were continued from last 
week’s Committee hearing. This week, there were no public comments or Supervisor discussion. The original file 
was forwarded with positive recommendation to the Board as a Committee Report. 
 
For the duplicated file, Director Tang provided a high-level overview of the forthcoming amendments to the 
duplicate file. These include changes to the temporary fee exemption for converting PDR uses to non-PDR; LCCU 
allowances, Use Size limitations, Formula Retail restrictions; and changes to Polk Street NCD in response to 
community feedback. The item was then continued to the Call of the Chair. 
 
231091 Initiating Landmark Designation - Gregangelo & Velocity Art & Entertainment - 225 San Leandro Way. 
Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: LaValley 
 
Next the Committee considered the initiation of Landmark Designation for the Gregangelo & Velocity Art & 
Entertainment building located 225 San Leandro Way. This resolution was sponsored by Supervisor Melgar and 
cosponsored by Supervisor Preston. The proposed Landmark Designation will still need to go before the HPC for 
their review and recommendation, but this action starts that process. There were a lot of speakers for this one. All 
we in support of the designation and most were artists who had found a community at the site. After public 
comment, the item was forwarded to the Board with a positive recommendation.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 7, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 10 
 
231175 Urging the City Attorney and the Mayor to Respond to HCD’s “Policy and Practice Review” by Seeking 
Extensions of Deadlines for Required Actions, and Certain Revisions and Corrections; and Setting City Policy for 
Implementation of the Housing Element. Sponsors: Peskin; Chan. Staff: N/A. 
 
Next the Committee considered the Resolution “Urging the City Attorney and the Mayor to Respond to HCD’s 
“Policy and Practice Review” by Seeking Extensions of Deadlines for Required Actions, and Certain Revisions and 
Corrections” As I mentioned last week, the Resolution was amended. Mostly it seems that the amendments were 
related to the overall tone of the resolution, and some other relatively minor modifications. For Example, the long 
title of the resolution went from: “Resolution directing the City Attorney and the City Lobbyist, on behalf of the City, 
to request that the State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) extend the Housing Element 
Implementation Action Plan deadline” to  “Resolution urging the City Attorney and the Mayor to request that the 
State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD): 1) extend the deadlines for Required Actions 
in HCD’s Policy and Practice Review.” 
 
231142 Planning and Subdivision Codes, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Engardio. Staff: Starr. 
Item 8 
 
Lastly the committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s amendments to the Constraints reduction ordinance 
that would remove the CU to exceed certain unit and building sizes in the Central Neighborhoods Large Home SUD 
and the Corona Heights Large Home SUD. Commissioners, you considered these amendments last week and voted 
to recommend approval with modifications. Those modifications include: 
1. Change the maximum building size from 3,000 sq. ft. to 3,500 sq. ft. in both SUDs.  
2. Allow a 20% increase in both SUDs.  
3. Amend Planning Code Section 311 so that the word “building permit” is replaced with “planning entitlement.” 
For proposed expansions allowed under the 20% increase, add a 5-year lookback on building permits to avoid 
serial permitting. All residential expansions during that five-year period should count toward the 20% limit. 
  
The Supervisor did not increase the maximum unit size or the allowable increase from 15 to 20% but he did allow 
a 15% increase in the Corona Heights SUD. He intends to include a 5-year lookback; however, that amendment was 
not ready so the file was duplicated so that this and other amendments Supervisor Peskin intends to include could 
be added later. As usual there were public commentors, some in favor, some against. Nothing new that this 
commission the Board had not already heard before. After the item was amended and duplicated it was sent to 
the Full Board without a recommendation.  
 
Full Board  
 
230505 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural Center Special Use District. Sponsor: 
Engardio. Staff: Pantoja. Passed First Read 
 
230701 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read 
 
231091 Initiating Landmark Designation - Gregangelo & Velocity Art & Entertainment - 225 San Leandro Way. 
Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: LaValley. Adopted 
 
231175 Urging the City Attorney and the Mayor to Respond to HCD’s “Policy and Practice Review” by Seeking 
Extensions of Deadlines for Required Actions, and Certain Revisions and Corrections; and Setting City Policy for 
Implementation of the Housing Element. Sponsors: Peskin; Chan. Staff: N/A. Adopted  
 
230443 Planning and Subdivision Codes, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Engardio and Dorsey. 
Staff: Starr.  
 
231142 Planning and Subdivision Codes, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Engardio. Staff: Starr.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 7, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 10 
 
And last but certainly not least, the Board took up the mayor’s constraints reduction ordinance. At the Full Board 
the original file was merged with the duplicated ordinance that included Supervisor Mandelman’s amendments 
were merged into one ordinance. Several Supervisors spoke about this item. Notably Supervisor Preston said that 
he was comfortable voting for this ordinance now since the provision that allowed the demolition of two 
unoccupied rent-controlled units was take out, and that the city could lose affordable housing funding if we don’t 
pass it. Supervisor Safai noted that while the ordinance was setting the framework for success, the market 
conditions were still such that we may not see a lot of housing get bult immediately. Several Supervisor also praised 
Supervisor Melgar for on her hard work on this ordinance. Something the Planning Department staff also very 
much appreciate. In the end the Board passed on First read the constraints reduction ordinance on a 9-2 vote, with 
Supervisors Chan and Peskin voting against it.  
 
Finally, this week I also took the Constraints Reduction ordinance to the Youth Commission. The youth commission 
is made up of 17 members, one from each Supervisorial District and six appointed by the mayor. I gave them the 
same presentation I gave to this commission and the Land Use Committee. There were several very thoughtful 
questions and comments from the commissioners, and they seemed very appreciative that I came to present. Many 
commissioners commented on the need for more housing, especially for their generation. They’re concerned 
about being priced out of the city when they move out of their parents’ homes. There was a comment about 
preserving the city as is, and how this ordinance will impact its physical character, but most commissioners spoke 
in favor of the changes proposed in the ordinance. In the end the commission passed a resolution to support the 
constraint reduction ordinance on a 16-1 vote. The next day the Board voted 9-2 to support it as well. Coincidence? 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and, well actually Commissioner Wright got Covid so he 
was not there, otherwise we would have had a full, the Commission fully seated with seven members. Amy 
Campbell joined us a couple of weeks ago and Hans Baldauf joined us for the first time yesterday. The Commission 
adopted recommendations for approval for several small business legacy registry applicants – Orale Orale on 
Sacramento, City Art Gallery 2.0 on Valencia, Lamplighters Music Theatre on Bryant Street, San Francisco Women 
Artists on Irving Street, Polly Ann Ice Cream on Noriega Street, and Woody LaBounty strongly recommended 
avoiding the Avocado flavor, Firefly Restaurant on 24th Street. They also adopted a recommendation to you for the 
Installation of Business Signs which you will hear today as well as the Enforcement Penalty Guidelines which you 
already acted on, and the State Legislation informational presentation which you will also hear today.