10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just a couple of follow-ups from questions you all had at previous hearings. One, we had a 
discussion with the community about Trader Joes. I think they came to talk in General 
Public Comment. Not a ton of progress on the movement of Trader Joe's starting 
construction, although Supervisor Preston has called for a hearing. That will be held in 
early April, and we'll participate in that and hopefully hear directly from the sponsor and, 
or Trader Joe's. You also asked about the concrete building standards, and I checked in 
with Brian Strong who's the Chief Resilience Officer at the City Administrator's office. 
They're not quite ready for a hearing. They're still kind of working doing outreach on that, 
but they said in late summer or early fall they may be ready for a hearing. And then there 
was a question about there's 4 Silicon Valley Bank and their relationship to a few projects, 
affordable housing projects, by MOHCD. There are four projects that are currently under 
construction and MOHCD doesn't anticipate any change to that. There may be a different 
entity who's actually the lender in this, but they're working with SVB or the entity that's 
going to take over those loans and they don't expect any change. There's one project that 
hasn't started construction, whereas SVB is the lender, the construction lender, so they're 
exploring options on that one as well, but hoping that there'll be no delays to those 
projects as a result of that. That's all I have.  
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 23, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 10 
 
11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
210585 Planning Code - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: 
Mayor. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
This week the Committee considered the State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit 
Controls, sponsored by the mayor. The goal of this Ordinance is to align our ADU controls 
with changes to state law, which primarily clarified the ministerial review process for ADUs. 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item way back in September 2021 and recommended 
approval with a modification. The modification was to allow a detached ADU within the 
required rear yard following the State law parameters. Last week the ordinance was 
amended to incorporate this modification, after which it was continued one week. 
 
This week, Supervisor Peskin raised issues about the ordinance already being out of date 
with State law and wanted to amend it further. That, however, would have required 
referral back to the Commission and the adoption of this ordinance has implications 
related affordable housing funding. As a compromise, the ordinance was duplicated. The 
original ordinance was forwarded to the Full Board with recommendation, while the 
duplicated ordinances was amended with some recent changes to state law and re-
referred to this commission. 
 
Full Board 
 
220878 Planning, Building Codes - Penalties for Code Enforcement. Sponsors: Ronen; 
Peskin and Chan. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
 
230299 Initiating Landmark Designation – Carnaval Mural – 1311 South Van Ness Ave. 
Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: TBD. Adopted 
 
230300 Initiating Landmark Designation – Chata Gutierrez Mural – 3175 24th Sponsor: 
Ronen. Staff: TBD. Adopted 
 
President Tanner: 
Mr. Starr, do you know what some of those recent changes are that we're not included in 
the legislation. 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Yeah, there were changes to what you can do for the detached rear yard. I think a cottage 
it's like 16 ft. and I think you're allowed to go up to 18 ft. now. But there were a lot more 
changes over the intervening two years, so it's not just that one change which made the 
whole thing more complicated.   
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 23, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 10 
 
President Tanner: 
But they expect this one to go forward and then the duplicated file to follow.  
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Yeah, we were going to introduce another one anyway, but this just gives us, it already 
made file, so. 
 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. Thank you.