8. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just one item from me. I would ask if we can adjourn today's meeting in honor of Gigi Platt, who passed away. 
She passed away yesterday. I heard from Mark Reiser. She served on the Landmark Preservation Advisory Board, 
I think in the 70s or maybe the 80s, but she was a fierce advocate for Preservation. She also sat on the Historic 
Preservation Fund Committee, which was that $2.5 million settlement from Westfield and kind of advising on 
how we spent that money. She was on the Board of Heritage, where she was legendary in the Preservation 
community. So, I just ask that we adjourn the meeting in her honor. We're doing the Citywide Survey, which I 
think is something she pushed for years to do. 
President Tanner: 
Certainly. 
9. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
230704 Planning Code - Fleet Charging Locations and Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsor: Chan. Staff: Delumo.  
 
First on the agenda was Supervisor Chan’s ordinance that would prohibit Parcel Delivery Services from being an 
accessory use to Fleet Charging. Commissioners, you heard this item on November 16 and recommended 
approval with modifications.  
 
That modification was to amend the language to make clear Parcel Delivery Service activity would still be allowed 
with a separate entitlement.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 15 
 
During the hearing Supervisor Chan requested that the Commission’s proposed amendments be added to the 
ordinance, that motion was made and passed. There were only a couple public commentors, representing 
various unions, and all were in support of the ordinance. The item was then forwarded to the Full Board with a 
positive recommendation.  
 
231033 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Chata Gutierrez Mural. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: LaValley. 
231034 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Carnaval Mural. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: LaValley.  
 
Next the Committee consider two landmark designations, sponsored by Supervisor Ronen. 
 
The first was the landmark designation for the Chata Gutierrez Mural, 3175 24th Street. This Designation was 
initiated by the Board on 3/21/23. The HPC unanimously recommended approval 9/18/23. 
 
The Chata Gutierrez Mural, painted in 2015, is a tribute to a cultural icon of the Latinx community, is a cultural 
asset that has a significant association with the Mission District’s Pan-Latino community, and celebrates the Latin 
Music Movement, a significant and vibrant part of San Francisco’s cultural heritage. 
 
The second landmark designation was also for a mural, the Carnaval Mural located at 1311-1315 South Van Ness 
Avenue. This designation was Initiated by BOS 3/21/23 and unanimously approved by the HPC on 9/18/23. 
 
The Carnaval Mural, painted in 1983, is a cultural asset with significant and longstanding association with the 
Mission District’s Pan-Latino community, celebrating Latin music and culture in the Mission District. In addition, 
the Carnaval Mural has high artistic value and is representative of the Community Art Movement, or Mission 
Muralismo, a distinctive mode of expression within the Mission District, which is internationally known for its rich 
collection of murals. 
 
There was one public comment period for both items. Many members of the Mission community came out to 
voice their support for the two designations, and the artist for the Carnaval mural was also present to provide 
public testimony. After public comment, the Committee then forwarded the two items to the Full Board as a 
committee report with a positive recommendation.  
 
231258 Planning and Subdivision Codes, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr. 
 
Next the Committee heard one of the duplicated versions of the Constraint’s reduction ordinance. The intention 
with this ordinance is to add some of the amendments that Supervisor Peskin’s office brought for discussion 
before the Planning Commission a couple of weeks ago. Mainly the changes that would add 311-notification to 
Chinatown. Peskin’s amendments were not ready yet, but Staff did seek the 311 changes that the Commission 
recommended be added to the ordinance. These amendments would change building permit to planning 
entitlement. The Committee did accept those amendments and continued the item to the first Land Use hearing 
in January.  
 
230310 Planning Code - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr.  
 
Next the Committee considered the proposed changes that would bring the Planning Code into alignment with 
the State ADU program. Commissioners, you heard this item September 28 and recommended approval with 
modifications. That modification was: 
Amend the Code to exclude ADUs from dwelling unit mix requirements. 
 
Planning staff also read into the record several other changes that HCD said we needed to include in the 
ordinance to be compliant with state law. These amendments had not been considered by the Planning 
Commission, so the idea was to have the amendments made in committee and then referred back to the 
Planning Commission for your review. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 15 
 
Supervisor Peskin took exception to the amendments, claiming them to be last minute and that he would be 
skirting his responsibility as a legislator if he accepted them without fully understanding them. This was a 
surprise to us, as staff at the mayor’s office did send these amendments to all Land Use committee members via 
email on December 6 with an offer for a briefing. Making our Planning Code consistent with State ADU rules is 
essential in San Francisco receiving it pro-housing designation from the state.  
 
The amendments were not taken, and the item was the continued to January.  
 
230706 Planning Code - Eliminating Public Art Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects. Sponsor: 
Dorsey. Staff: Merlone.  
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Dorsey’s ordinance that would amend the Planning Code to 
eliminate the public art requirement for 100% affordable housing projects in the C-3 District and provide for the 
relocation or removal of existing artwork at such projects subject to certain conditions. 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on November 16, 2023, and voted to approve the ordinance with 
several modifications. Those modifications include: 
 
1. Create new and clarify existing Criteria for the ZA’s Consideration. 
2. Add clarifying language to the removal, relocation, and alteration provisions so that 100% Affordable 
Housing Projects proposing a minor relocation or alteration of the artwork are offered the same, less onerous 
process currently available to market-rate projects. 
3. Amend Administrative Code Section 3.19 to exempt 100% affordable housing projects, including 100% 
affordable residential buildings built to satisfy affordable housing requirements of market rate projects, from 
the 2% for art enrichment requirement.  
4. And other technical amendments  
 
Prior to the Land Use Committee hearing, Supervisor Dorsey had multiple conversations with stakeholders who 
were concerned about removing the public art requirement for future affordable housing projects. As such, at 
the Land Use Committee, the Supervisor requested that the Committee duplicate the ordinance, and make the 
Commission’s first two recommended modifications that relate to artwork on existing affordable housing 
buildings along with the technical amendments.  
 
These amendments were made to the duplicated file and unanimously moved it forward with a positive 
recommendation as a Committee Report. The Committee did not make the Commission’s recommended 
modifications related to future projects.  The original file will remain unchanged at the Land Use Committee and 
was continued to the call of the chair. 
 
During public comment, one person spoke to emphasize that artists are local businesses, and that funding 
should be set aside to pay them, and one owner from the 1400 Mission Street spoke to emphasize the 
importance of being able to remove vandalized public art from 100% affordable buildings because of the cost to 
the building’s BMR residents. Finally, a representative from Council of Community Housing Organizations spoke 
to state their support for the ability of 1400 Mission to remove their vandalized artwork, but that the organization 
still had concerns about removing the public art requirement for future 100% affordable projects.  
 
230863 Planning Code - Exceptions from Limits on Conversion of Production, Distribution and Repair, 
Institutional Community, and Arts Activities Uses in Eastern Neighborhood Plans Areas. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: 
Merlone. Item 9 
 
Finally the committee considered Supervisor Dorsey’s ordinance that would amend the replacement 
requirements established via Prop X. The ordinance would exempt changes of use from one protected use (PDR, 
Institutional Community, or Arts Activities use) to another protected use, or to any Institutional use in the areas 
that as of July 1, 2016 were zoned SALI, MUO, SLI, MUG, or MUR. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 15 
 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on October 26th, 2023, and voted to approve the ordinance with a 
recommended modification that the Board consider placing a ground floor square footage cap on proposed 
changes of use that would be exempt from replacement requirements.  
 
At the Land Use Committee, Supervisor Dorsey’s office requested that the Committee make an amendment to 
place a 25,000-ground floor square footage cap as the Commission recommended. The Committee accepted this 
amendment before unanimously moving the item forward to the full Board as a Committee report. There was 
only one public commentor who spoke in favor of the ordinance.  
 
Full Board 
230505 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural Center Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: Pantoja. PASSED Second Read 
230701 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
230446 Planning and Subdivision Codes, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Engardio and 
Dorsey. Staff: Starr. Passed Second Read 
231187 Hearing - Appeal of Tentative Parcel Map Approval - 1365-1371 York Street. Staff: Starr. Continued to 
January 
231056 Mills Act Historical Property Contract - 2209 Webster Street. Staff: Ferguson. Adopted 
231058 Mills Act Historical Property Contract - 988 Market Street. Staff: Ferguson. Adopted 
230704 Planning Code - Fleet Charging Locations and Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsor: Chan. Staff: Delumo. 
Passed First Read 
230706 Planning Code - Eliminating Public Art Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects. Sponsor: 
Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
230863 Planning Code - Exceptions from Limits on Conversion of Production, Distribution and Repair, 
Institutional Community, and Arts Activities Uses in Eastern Neighborhood Plans Areas. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: 
Merlone. Passed First Read 
231033 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Chata Gutierrez Mural. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: LaValley. Passed 
First Read 
231034 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Carnaval Mural. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: LaValley. Passed First 
Read 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Turner, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board of Appeals 
did have a lengthy hearing last night, and there were two cases that were the bulk of that and that were of 
interest to the Commission. The first was an appeal of a reasonable modification granted to 51 Prosper Street. 
And if you recall this was originally before the Planning Commission as a Conditional Use Authorization request 
to merge two dwelling units that was running into SB 330 challenges. It was determined that the impetus for 
that request was because the occupant and owner had a qualifying disability and could qualify for the reasonable 
modification process instead of a conditional use. They went through that process. The proposal was for a four 
merger. There are two criteria that must be considered out of seven for a reasonable modification. One is, are 
there other alternatives than what's being requested to provide the physical accommodation and with the 
accommodation represent a fundamental alteration to the code of the General Plan. So, the final determination 
was to not grant a modification that allowed the full legal merger of two units, but allowed the interior 
connection between the two units that be opened up to be used essentially as one unit, as long as there was that 
need, and then after that need was no longer there, within a reasonable time frame, have that connection closed. 
The applicant appealed that decision to the Board of Appeals, requesting for the full legal merger of the two units 
on the basis that the burden to close the connection would be too burdensome, and for a desire to go from 5 to 
4 units in the building for more favorable financing and insurance. This was the first reasonable modification to 
be appealed to the Board of Appeals. So, it was a bit of a of an education for everyone on what this is and how it 
works, and they, the Board, was very understanding of the attempt to try to balance both policies of providing a 
reasonable accommodation while also preserving rent controlled units and trying to find that ultimately, though, 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 15 
 
they did determine that the specific situations in this case only was compelling enough. And even though they 
acknowledged they were not the Planning Commission, they kind of posited that they thought that it was likely 
that if the if they came back for the Conditional Use Authorization, that they may be likely to get it. And so on 
that basis, they granted the appeal and the reasonable modification for the full legal merger of two units in the 
building.  
The second case was 1228 Funston Avenue, which, as you may recall, has been before the Commission twice, 
once in 2017 as a DR and then once in March of this year as a second DR. Essentially the same project, though, if 
you'll recall back in 2014, they submitted a building permit for a three-story addition that had already been built. 
It was determined, so Rodrigo Santos situation. Ultimately, the Department requested them to make changes to 
be consistent with the Residential Design Guidelines, and they refused to do that. So, it came to the Planning 
Commission. The Planning Commission required them to reduce the amount of additions that had been 
constructed and they basically did not do that with, that permit was canceled. They filed a 2019 permit to actually 
comply with those conditions, that permit has been issued. But then in 2021, with a new team, they proposed a 
new permit that kept the same building mass to legalize, but proposed a second small garden studio on the 
ground floor, and that it came back before the Planning Commission because of the prior DR. The applicant had 
claimed that the changed circumstances were the addition of the second unit, which triggered Housing 
Accountability Act and their opinion, and that the adjacent property had had another building approved since 
that time, which changed the Residential Design Guideline context. As you may recall, the Planning Commission 
did not agree with that analysis and expressed their frustration that the original decision had not been acted 
upon and this issue was still outstanding. And you voted 5 to 1 to take DR again. You have the same conditions 
of approval and add some timelines as well. They appealed that decision, well they refused to make those 
changes to permit. The permit was canceled again and that was appealed to the Board of Appeals. Once again I 
think the Board of Appeals was frustrated and understanding of the situation and were very conflicted on the 
best path forward and spent a lot of time trying to figure out what was the best way to not incentivize this action 
in the future, but also come to some resolution that could actually happen on this site. There were concerns that 
the actual financial cost to do the work after this time would be substantial and could lead to leaving the property 
kind of in limbo. The property owners weren't able to do that. So ultimately, they voted to grant the appeal with 
a slightly different outcome, to permit the physical building addition, three story addition, but to acquire the rear 
decks and stairs be removed, require the ground floor studio garden unit to be expanded a little bit into the 
garage area to increase the size of that unit, and to acquire if not already applicable, that that unit be subject to 
rent control. And so that would be, that permit will be able to move forward in that way, and that project will be 
able to be finished, and that issue resolved kind of, hopefully for good at this point. But that is all from the Board 
of Appeals report but available for any questions you may have.  
Commissioner Koppel: 
That was the project where the tenant was a general contractor and knowingly did all the work without permits. 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
There was I can't remember which person associated with the property, and there was a lot of conversation about 
that person being the contractor. And what that meant for them as well. So, so yes, that was the same project. 
President Tanner: 
Thank you for your report.