13. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
1) Welcome back. Thank you for the positive words and news, 2) I was at IKEA, I think our staff has been going to 
IKEA too and it’s been crowded and energetic. So, it’s great. Just to plug on our Housing Element rezoning efforts, 
there is an online forum open house coming up next Thursday so it’s a week from today at noon to supplement 
the work we’re already doing out in the community and the open houses we’ve held in the past couple of months. 
A couple of you have asked just broadly about the timeline for our Housing Element work and the rezoning, you 
know, as you know, January is the date we hope to be before you with the package that you could approve, to 
put forward then to the Board of Supervisors but before that, we’ll go back to the community with a more specific 
proposal in November.  We’re going to come back to you also to get your comments and direction and feedback 
on that. There will be, probably meetings in between November and January to get further comments and 
refinements from you but that’s the general schedule as we move forward on Housing Element rezoning.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
I just have a question, Director, regarding the Affordable Housing Leadership Council, are they going to make a 
report back to the Planning Commission? And when will -- 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
Yes. I’ll get back on timing. I think it’s early next year, probably about the same time. We didn’t meet over the 
summer. We’ve kind of been in our research due diligence phase but I think we’ve got a meeting on the books 
coming, coming back in September.  So, I think, work to you later this year or early next year. But I’ll get more 
details on the timing. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay, thank you. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Hillis, we have been away for quite some time, the ULI panel that we had was very important including 
speaking about housing in particular parts of the city, will we be able to get updates for the Commission?  
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
Yes.  
Commissioner Moore: 
In particular I think that discussion folds into also the Housing Element and [inaudible]  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 7, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 12 
 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
Yeah, we have an item scheduled in October -- 
Commissioner Moore: 
Okay, thank you. 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
--to hear their final report after I think, it’s close to complete, as well as we’ll bring in Economic Development to 
talk about the broader city plan and how the ULI proposal feeds into that and elements of that that have been 
adopted into the city’s plan. So, we’ll have a presentation to you with OEWD and ULI in October. 
14. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use 
Canceled for Labor Day 
Full Board 
230026 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family Housing Opportunity 
Special Use District] Sponsors: Melgar; Engardio. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
230559 Planning, Building, Fire Codes - Small Business Month Fee Waivers Including for Awning Installation 
and Business Signs. Sponsors: Engardio; Stefani. Staff: A. Butkus. PASSED Second Read 
230764 Planning, Building Codes - Development Impact Fee Indexing, Deferral, and Waivers; Adoption of 
Nexus Study. Sponsors: Mayor; Peskin, Mandelman, Dorsey, Stefani and Safai. Staff: Sider. PASSED Second Read 
230769 Planning, Administrative Codes - Development Impact Fee Reductions. Sponsors: Peskin; Safai, 
Mandelman, Dorsey and Stefani. Staff: Grob. PASSED Second Read 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Tanner, Commissioners, Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. It’s great to see you all 
again after the break. There were a few Board of Appeals hearings over the last month. A few items of note, first, 
the project at 2861-2865 San Bruno Avenue, a case you are all very familiar with. Just FYI, they had some 
outstanding appeals that were kind of waiting on the Commission to act so. One was the appeal for suspension 
request for permit, they withdrew that appeal. Another one was one of the notices of violation that had been 
issued to that project and we essentially all agree to amend that notice of violation so that the abatement 
requirements match the conditions of approval of the conditional use. So, I just want to let you know that was 
all cleaned up and that project is, you know, moving forward to comply with the Conditional Use Authorization 
that you all approved. We did have a project that was a bit in the news, 931 Treat Avenue, a dispute over an 
unusual parcel that was a former railroad spur and that was an appeal of interior work in a warehouse that was 
being used for the company Monkey Brains. The real dispute is the issue over parcel 36 in terms of determining 
ownership and what the permitted uses are. The appeals were denied but that issue is outstanding and it’s 
something we’re continuing to work with in our Department and the Supervisor’s office. On August 16th, there 
was an appeal of a notice of violation issued for 5400 Geary Boulevard and this is for the Alexandria Theatre and 
that NOV was issued because it had required Conditions of Approval from a motion that the Planning 
Commission had granted prior to allow, basically the renovation and reuse of the theatre and also the 
construction of a primarily residential building on the same property that’s previously a parking lot. As some of 
you may know, that project went forward for the residential component. The theatre renovation did not. There 
were Conditions of Approval there that essentially require the property owner to maintain the building and 
protect it and especially the architectural elements over time until that renovation occurred and it had not 
occurred. And that essentially hasn’t happened and it got to the point where the blade sign over the street had 
to be removed for safety purposes because there was concerns from DBI it was going to fall onto the sidewalk. 
We’ve been working with them to try to get that replaced and making sure they maintain the building 
appropriately. This appeal went to the board but the board ultimately determined that the notice of violation 
was issued correctly and they unanimously upheld the NOV and we are actively working with those property 
owners on that issue. And then last but not least, we have reported back a few months ago about an appeal of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 7, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 12 
 
the demolition permit for 2550 Irving Street and this is 100% affordable housing SB35 project. That appeal was 
eventually denied but the new construction permit was also appealed. That was heard on August 16th. That 
ultimately also was denied. It was a, there was one member absent, it was a 2-2 vote, you need 4 to overturn. So 
that appeal was denied. There was a re-hearing request filed for that which is scheduled to be heard next week 
and where the appellants are requesting for a new hearing based on new information. But that appeal on August 
16th for a new construction permit was denied. And that’s it for the Board of Appeals. Thank you. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, the Historic Preservation Commission met yesterday and the only noteworthy item was actually 
on their Continuance Calendar for the Fillmore Street property. The Clay Theatre was continued. They are 
proposing interior and exterior alterations to modify from a single screen theatre to a retail sales establishment 
but, again, it was continued and will be considered at a later date.  
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Yeah. Just following the information on 2550 Irving, I’m just thinking about how we as a city have very ambitious 
goals to produce affordable housing and how much of a detriment it is to the community, to affordable housers, 
when we have folks appealing much needed affordable housing projects. And is there anything that we as a 
Planning Department have learned from that, in terms of what we can do as a city, as a Department, as a 
Commission, and as a community to prevent hopefully those things from happening in the future. Because 
before the appeal process, I mean, we all heard what the commotion was with that project and that’s a well-
resourced neighborhood right? We’re going to hope that we see more affordable housing projects in those areas. 
So, what can we do? 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
It’s a good question alright. This is a bit of an unusual case but hopefully we will see more projects similar to this 
where in well-resourced neighborhoods along commercial corridors adjacent to transit. We’re able to purchase 
lands and finance affordable housing projects. And I think TNDC and the City, MOCD, they did a great job in kind 
of talking about this project and engaging with the community. Hopefully some of the work we’re doing around 
the Housing Element will get residents to understand like these projects can and hopefully will be coming 
especially to commercial corridors in well-resourced neighborhoods. So, that’s the hope. Certainly these projects, 
there were issues around conditions of soil and DTSC was involved. There are issues in that neighborhood. I don’t 
think this is the right forum to address those right? DTSC I think has been extremely cooperative and the board 
or DPH could ask for hearings to talk about this issue but holding up this project in response to that, I just think 
was the wrong place and a bit of an abuse of the process. You know, we’re there yet again to talk about a re-
hearing request. I don’t think this should even be before the Board of Appeals. There are ministerial approvals 
but they are  and you know, there’s not much the Board of Appeals can actually even do when they’re before 
them. So, the outcome was right but it obviously took, it was costly for TNDC to go to these projects. It’s processed 
took a lot of time and money. Hopefully some of our housing element work and the rezoning work will talk about 
what’s going to happen so we don’t get these appeals. 
President Tanner: 
Yeah. I was going to say maybe we can be part of a procedural changes as well as rezoning to think about how 
do we streamline things and do just what both of you were talking about. Thanks for the question, Commissioner 
Ruiz.