11. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
12. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Rich Sucre, Deputy Director of Current Planning: 
 
 
 
Hi Commissioners, Rich Sucre again. I’m here for Aaron Starr. Obviously, I am not Aaron 
Starr but I am reading his report. 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
230559 Planning, Building, Fire Codes - Small Business Month Fee Waivers Including for 
Awning Installation and Business Signs. Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: Flores.  
 
This week the Land use Committee took up the duplicated file for the Small Business 
Month Fee Waiver. Commissioners, this item was duplicated so that the duplicated file 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 27, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
could be amended to include the Planning Commission’s recommended modifications 
and then referred to the BIC for their review and recommendation.  
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on May 4th and unanimously recommended 
approval with a modification to expand the program to all signs applied for during the 
month of May (not just awnings or sign copy on awnings). Supervisor Edgardo include 
this amendment in the duplicate file that was considered at land use this week; however, 
at the suggestion of Supervisor Chan the expansion of the fee waiver will only apply for 
May 2023 and May 2024. 
 
This week there was little discussion and no public comment, and the item was forwarded 
to the Full Board with a positive recommendation. 
 
230764 Planning, Building Codes - Development Impact Fee Indexing, Deferral, and 
Waivers; Adoption of Nexus Study. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Sider. 
 
230769 Planning, Administrative Codes - Development Impact Fee Reductions. Sponsors: 
Peskin; Safai. Staff: Conner.  
 
Next the Committee took up two ordinances at once, the Development Impact Fee 
indexing Ordinance and the Development Impact Fee Reduction Ordinance sponsored by 
the Mayor and Supervisor Peskin respectively. Commissioners you heard these items on 
July 13 and recommended approval with modifications for both.  
 
For the Indexing Ordinance you recommended eliminating development impact fees 
assessed on changes of use throughout the Planning Code. 
 
And for the Development Impact Fee Reduction amendments are:  
1. Apply the reductions of Section 415A and 415B to inclusionary projects of all 
sizes, not only to projects with 25 units or more.  
2. Authorize temporary rate reductions for pipeline projects that have used the 
HOME-SF Program.  
3. Standardize deadlines within the various rate reduction programs and between 
the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Program and other standard timelines:  
4. Remove the requirement for two or more people to occupy middle-income units. 
5. Remove the on-site, off-site, and fee rates set forth in Planning Code Section 419 
for the Urban Mixed- Use District for all projects.  
6. Simplify the requirements set forth in the Divisadero NCT by removing the 
distinction for projects that were upzoned through the creation of the Divisadero 
NCT.  
7. Modify the Planning Code to maintain the same on-site, off-site and fee rates for 
both Rental Housing Projects and Ownership Housing Projects beginning 
November 1, 2026.  
8. Modify the Planning Code to remove the annual increases from the Inclusionary 
Affordable Housing Program which are set to begin on January 1, 2028.  
9. Correct the proposed Citywide Fee/Off-site rate for Interim Rate Projects to 
20.4%, instead of 20.5%, and adjust the low-income tier to 11.4% instead of 
11.5%. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 27, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
The Committee duplicated the file at Supervisor Safai’s request in order to include some 
of the amendments; however, Supervisor Peskin said he was not inclined to add those 
amendments to the duplicated ordinance. So, the Committee ultimately did NOT take any 
of the Planning Commission’s recommendations. This does have implementation impacts 
for the Department as many of the amendments were common sense changes intended 
to simplify our existing process which is extremely complicated.  
 
The Committee members had a robust discussion about these two ordinances. Supervisor 
Peskin explained the history of the Inclusionary ordinance, the reasoning behind the 
reduction and the process that led to the proposed reductions. Supervisor Preston was 
unconvinced that the fees and inclusionary numbers should be reduced and challenged 
the assumption that these changes would lead to any new housing at all. He asked staff if 
anyone had projected how much money were set to lose should this pass. We did not. 
 
There was also significant public comment with most callers objecting to the reduction of 
fees and questioning the need for additional market rate housing in San Francisco.  
 
The committee did end up moving the item to the full board on a 2-1 vote, with 
Supervisor Preston voting against the motion.  
 
230026 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family 
Housing Opportunity Special Use District. Sponsors: Melgar. Staff: Flores. 
 
Lastly, the committee considered Supervisor Melgar’s Family housing Opportunity SUD 
ordinance. This ordinance would remove process requirements for demolition and public 
notice for building expansion, in addition to providing more density for projects in RH 
zoning districts that met specific requirements. Commissioners, you may recall this was 
heard last week and amended by Supervisor Melgar. Peskin also had amendments that he 
wanted to incorporate; however, they had not been drafted to form yet. This week those 
amendments were added and include: 
1. Require a CU if demolishing any rent controlled units;  
2. Ensuring Group Housing SUD controls still apply;  
3. And amendments to ensure that only one unit would be permitted in the rear 
yard should the project be allowed to have more than four units based on lot 
area. 
4. Exclude the North Beach SUD and the Telegraph Hill SUD from the proposed 
Family Housing Opportunity SUD, and  
5. Some clerical amendments.  
 
Public comment wasn’t as robust as last time, but there were commentors in support and 
opposition to the ordinance. After public comment the committee voted to forward the 
item to the full board as a committee report.  
 
Full Board 
 
The following items passed second read: 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 27, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 14 
 
221164 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Van Ness & Market Residential Special Use District - 
Height Increase for 98 Franklin Street. Sponsor: Preston. Staff: Alexander. Passed Second 
Read 
230502 General Plan - Port of San Francisco Waterfront Plan Update. Sponsor: Planning 
Commission. Staff: Snyder. Passed Second Read 
 
230501 Zoning Map - Port of San Francisco Waterfront Plan Update; Waterfront Zoning 
Correction. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Snyder. Passed Second Read 
 
230503 Planning Code - Port of San Francisco Waterfront Plan Update. Sponsor: Planning 
Code. Staff: Snyder. Passed Second Read 
 
230690 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Parkside Branch Library. Sponsor: 
Engardio. Staff: La Valley. Passed Second Read 
 
230732 Planning and Building Codes - Commercial to Residential Adaptive Reuse and 
Downtown Economic Revitalization. Sponsors: Mayor; Peskin. Staff: Langlois. Passed 
Second Read 
 
230745 Building, Planning Codes - Existing Awning Amnesty Program. Sponsors: Mayor; 
Peskin and Stefani. Staff: Merlone. Passed Second Read 
 
The following Items passed first read: 
 
230026 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family 
Housing Opportunity Special Use District. Sponsors: Melgar. Staff: Flores. Passed First 
Read 
 
230559 Planning, Building, Fire Codes - Small Business Month Fee Waivers Including for 
Awning Installation and Business Signs. Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: Flores. Passed First Read 
 
230764 Planning, Building Codes - Development Impact Fee Indexing, Deferral, and 
Waivers; Adoption of Nexus Study. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Sider. Passed First Read 
 
230769 Planning, Administrative Codes - Development Impact Fee Reductions. Sponsors: 
Peskin; Safai. Staff: Conner. Passed First Read 
 
 
Laura Lynch, Acting Commission Secretary: 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission did not meet this week. I do have a report from the 
Zoning Administrator for the Board of Appeals.  
 
 
 
The Board of Appeals met last night and considered several appeals. Of interest to the 
Planning Commission was an appeal of the Zoning Administrator’s interpretation related 
to the method of measurement for bulk controls and the associated definition of plan 
dimensions. The interpretation stated that, unless specified elsewhere in the Planning 
Code, the maximum Plan Dimensions per specific bulk limits apply within the exterior 
walls of each individual building or structure, such that a single building may not have 
multiple vertical elements, such as separate towers, that collectively exceed the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 27, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 14 
 
maximum permitted Plan Dimensions. However, separate buildings on the same lot will 
have separate Plan Dimensions for the purpose of measuring bulk limits. 
 
 
That interpretation was appealed by 2700 Sloat Holding LLC on the basis that the 
interpretation was an incorrect, inconsistent with past practice, and in violation of state 
law. After substantial questioning, and noting the Code provides options for projects to 
obtain approvals from the Planning Commission for additional bulk, the Board 
determined that the Zoning Administrator had not erred or abused their discretion in 
issuing the interpretation, and they voted unanimously to deny the appeal.