12. 
Director’s Announcements: 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I just wanted to remind you Commissioners that we have a housing element 
implementation hearing coming up in April on the 27th. We've been working obviously 
since the adoption and even before the adoption on implementation of the housing 
element, specifically you know, those items that were laid out in the mayor’s executive 
directive. I just wanted to highlight two items that were recently in the news or publicized, 
but we'll talk more about them on the 27th as well. The first was the establishment of the 
Affordable Housing Leadership Council that was called for, in the Housing Element. We've 
been working with MOHCD and the Mayor's Office to both greet the group and to staff it 
and to figure out kind of what the agenda is going forward. As a reminder, the goal of the 
group was to advise the city on how we're going to meet our affordable housing goals, 
which are 45,000 of the 82,000 units. They're primarily going to be focused on financing 
and funding local, state, regional and federal as well as the costs to build affordable 
housing. We do have commitments from seven leaders to participate on that Executive 
Council - Fred Blackwell from the San Francisco Foundation, Rebecca Foster from the 
Housing Accelerator Fund, Carol Galante from the -- who’s a housing researcher, Luis 
Granados from MEDA, Ann Silverberg from Related, Malcolm Yeung from CCDC, and Jim 
Wunderman from The Bay Area Council. That will obviously be expanded as we form 
technical advisory groups to the, to the executive committee. But I just wanted to make 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 15 
 
you aware of that and we'll certainly have more updates on the 27th. You might have also 
read, and Liz has been leading this effort for Planning, that Mayor Breed and Supervisor 
Safai are moving forward with legislation to reform the site permit process, and that was 
specifically called out in our housing element as an item to reform. Goal is to speed up 
process and allow for concurrent review. So, we may have more information, I mean, that 
may be also the topic of the joint DBI-Planning Commission hearing. We may also talk to 
you briefly about it during the April 27th hearing. So more to come on both those issues.  
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you. 
 
 13. 
Priority Development Area (PDA) - Planning Grant Application to Support Housing Element 
Implementation Zoning in Well-Resourced Neighborhood PDAs 
 
  
Joshua Switzky: 
  
Good afternoon again. So, we wanted to let the Commission know that we submitted an 
application for grant from MTC ABAG under their priority Development Area Planning 
Grant program in late February, and this would support the housing element 
implementation rezoning efforts across the well resource neighborhoods that overlap with 
the priority development areas. As a reminder, the priority development areas are locally 
nominated areas by jurisdictions that are recognized in Plan Bay Area as areas appropriate 
for housing and job growth because they are approximate to transit and other amenities, 
are urban infill locations that help meet the region meet its goals for reducing VMT, 
building housing where it's appropriate and improving mobility. And the designation of 
PDAs is sort of foundational to Plan Bay Area and they dole out much of their, or almost all 
of their planning support and increasingly so infrastructure money based on PDAs. Until 
2020, if you remember, most of our PDAs were located almost exclusively on the eastern 
half of the city. And for those of you who are on the Commission in the late 2019 early 
2020, if you remember the Commission and the Board of Supervisors substantially 
expanded the PDAs to include a substantial portions of what we now call the well-
resourced neighborhoods. And so several new PDAs were created at that time including 
what's called Lombard Street, which covers much of Marina and adjacent areas, an area 
called Central City Neighborhoods which covers sort of Lower Pac Heights through the 
Divisadero and the Haight through the Inner Sunset, the Richmond District, substantial 
parts of the Sunset called the Sunset Corridors, Forest Hill and West Portal. And then there 
were substantial expansions to other PDAs, including the J-Church corridor and some of 
the other streetcar lines in the southwest part of the city. So not surprisingly, these 
overlaps substantially with what we now call the well-resourced neighborhoods. The PDA 
designation came before we launched the new housing element update and so it sort of 
was a good precision for what was to come in the housing element. And so there is 
substantial overlap between these PDAs and the well-researched neighborhoods. The area 
in blue are well-researched neighborhoods that aren't covered by the PDAs, but these 
purple areas are all of the overlapped areas. So you can see there's substantial overlap. So, 
the grant application was submitted to help us support the rezoning effort and related 
efforts that are identified in the housing element that we're mandated to do and that are 
on the work program that the Commission has approved for the Department to proceed 
on. As you know, this is a very resource intensive effort and so any additional funding we 
can get from the region will really help us support not just our own staff costs, but our 
other expenses for consultants and CBO support. And of course, the Department is 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 15 
 
prepared to, to put whatever resources necessary to carry out this effort, but certainly this 
additional funding would be, would be really welcomed, especially to help us meet the 
timelines that the mayor has laid out. The maximum grant amount that we're eligible for is 
1.2 million and we submitted for $800,000. We do have some other residual grant funds 
from the state that we're hoping, that we're planning to use as well. I'll just note, we're, 
hopeful we'll get the money. We did submit a PDA grant application in 2020 after we 
designated these PDAs and we were all -- thought we would get some, we got nothing. 
That last time around, at the time MTC ABAG decided to essentially fund much more long 
standing PDAs that hadn't had any planning done for them for many years, and so that 
was their priority at the time. And now they're looking to fund newer PDAs. So we're 
hopeful that we will get something from the region. Typically MTC ABAG actually requires 
a resolution from the Planning Commission or a city council in support of their application 
to show that the city is aligned on supporting this. But in the case that the effort is called 
out in a certified housing element or is on an adopted work program that's already been 
approved that they don't require a resolution, so this fits that bill. Though they do require 
us to put it on an agendized calendar to make sure you have been formally made aware 
that this is happening and in case there are any questions. So that's why we're here today 
as an FYI. So I'm happy to take any questions, but hopefully it's pretty straightforward. 
Thank you, 
 
  
President Tanner: 
  
Thank you for the presentation and we look forward to receiving those grants. 
 
  
Commissioner Braun: 
  
Yes, I was just curious what's the, maybe you said this, and I didn't catch it, but what's the 
kind of the timeline for grant selection and awarding?  
 
  
Joshua Switzky: 
  
I believe it's relatively quick. I think within a couple of months or probably certainly by 
early to mid-summer we would know, and the grant funding would be available by the 
fall.  
 
  
Commissioner Braun: 
  
Okay, and also, this is something that could happen in a more formal hearing on this item, 
but what would it be possible to circulate the grant application itself? Just out of curiosity.  
 
  
Joshua Switzky: 
  
Yes, we'd be happy to.  
 
  
Commissioner Braun: 
  
Okay, thank you.  
 
  
Commissioner Moore: 
  
What is the expected product Mr. Switzky if I may ask. 
 
Joshua Switzky: 
  
Well, the deliverables for the grant are similar to what we would be delivering as part of 
the overall effort. It would be rezoning in and of itself is one of the key final deliverables, 
but the, the different tasks include a feasibility analysis, the whole engagement effort and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 15 
 
workshops and outreach materials, as well as the hearing processes themselves would be 
funded. It would also help fund some of the urban design support we're seeking from 
consultants to help do visualizations, which I remember were part of the discussion during 
the housing element process, as well as some additional modeling that HCD is requiring us 
to do. 
 
  
Commissioner Moore: 
  
But there are no strings attached, like review or approval or disapproval on their part.  
 
  
Joshua Switzky: 
  
No, I mean we promised to deliver a package for, submit a package to the Commission and 
Board for approval whether the board actually approves it. I don't think is a condition of 
the grant. I would hope not. 
  
 
  
Commissioner Moore: 
  
Good, thank you so much. Good luck, thank you. 
  
 
  
President Tanner: 
  
Thank you. 
 
14. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
210585 Planning Code - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: 
Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. Item 1 
 
This week the Committee considered the State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit 
Controls, sponsored by the mayor. The goal of this Ordinance is to align our ADU program 
with recent changes to state law, which primarily clarified the ministerial review process 
for ADUs. 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission and Planning Commission heard this item way back 
in September, 2021. Both Commissions recommended approval with a modification to 
allow a detached ADU within the required rear yard following the State law parameters. 
The goal was to incentivize our Local Program so that property owners could add a 
detached ADU in addition to the ADUs in the main building, instead of pursuing State ADU. 
 
The mayor incorporated this modification into the Ordinance. 
 
During the hearing there was one 1 public comment in support of the Ordinance 
 
Chair Melgar had a clarification question on the required notice. And  
 
President Peskin asked staff to confirm that only ADUs under the Local Program were 
subject to Rent Control. He also had a clarification question on the ratio of programs under 
Local Program (~85%) vs. State Program (~15%). 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 15 
 
 
Final action: Amended and continued to March 20th. 
 
221021 Planning, Administrative Codes - HOME-SF. Sponsors: Dorsey; Peskin. Staff: V. 
Flores. Item 2 
 
 
221105 Planning Code - HOME-SF. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores. Item 3 
 
220340 Planning Code - Neighborhood Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts. 
Sponsor: Dorsey. Item 4 
 
Continued to the Call of the Chair.  
 
Full Board 
 
221261 Planning Code, Zoning Map - The Village Special Use District. Sponsor: Mayor. 
Staff: Westhoff. PASSED Second Read 
 
220878 Planning, Building Codes - Penalties for Code Enforcement. Sponsors: Ronen; 
Peskin and Chan. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
 
230266 Initiating Landmark Designation - Alexandria Theatre. Sponsor: Chan. Staff: TBD.  
 
Adopted 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Apologies Commissioners. There was one item that the board heard that may be of 
interest to the Commission for the property at 264 Diamond Street, an appeal of an 
alteration and permit to demolish a portion of the building at the rear and constructed 
two- and three-story horizontal addition. The appellant, the neighbor to the north had 
previously filed a DR and the permit and the Commission heard the DR on November 10th 
2022. While the Department had initially recommended providing a 3-ft side setback at 
the 2nd floor to reciprocate the DR requestor side setback, the Department did present an 
alternative perspective at the hearing and explained how a 3-ft setback may also be 
needed. The Planning Commission voted +5 -2 to not take DR and approved the project 
with no setback. At the Board of Appeals hearing the appellant argued that the project did 
not comply with the Residential Design Guidelines and would cause light and air and view 
impacts. The appellant also argued that there were procedural irregularities and process 
violation. At the November 10th Commission hearing the appellant argued that there was 
no written material to support the change and the Department's recommendation prior to 
the hearing and no opportunity for the DR requestor to respond at the Commission 
hearing regarding the Department's amended position. After a two-and-a-half-hour 
deliberation and questioning, the board voted three to two to uphold the issuance of the 
permit. Commissioners Lemberg and Trasvina voted against. Also, yesterday the Historic 
Preservation did meet briefly and considered several Legacy Business Registry applications 
- Mendel's on 1556 Haight Street, Bernie's Pet Shop at 177 Brannan Street, Guerra’s Quality 
Meats at 490 Taraval Street, Castro Village Wine Company at 4121 19th Street, and we're all 
moved forward with recommendations for approval. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 12 of 15