5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Hi, Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning, acting Director while Director Hillis is out of the 
office today. We do just have one quick announcement I wanted to share with you. We 
actually have graduate students from Cal-Poly’s Master’s program in City and Regional 
Planning in the chambers today. They drove all the way up from San Luis Obispo to join us. 
Each year the Graduate Student Planning Association selects a Planning agency across 
California to give their students the opportunity to learn and hear from development 
review professionals working in the real world and this year they selected San Francisco. 
Our staff have given them an overview of our Department and Design Standards, Living 
Alleys, various local and state housing programs and how we implement them. So, they 
have gotten a little bit of a crash course from us today but we wanted to just acknowledge 
that they are in the chambers and to welcome them. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 4, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 12 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Great. Welcome, students. We’re so glad to have you here. Hopefully, we will provide 
exciting and very varied hearing with lots of different topics today. So, a good day to be 
here. Thank you. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee 
221105 Planning Code - HOME-SF. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores. 
221021 Planning, Administrative Codes - HOME-SF. Sponsors: Dorsey; Peskin. Staff: V. 
Flores. 
This week the two HOME-SF ordinances were back at the Land Use Committee after having 
been amended and then continued last week. This week there was only one public 
commenter, who represented the Housing Action Coalition, opposing Supervisor Peskin’s 
ordinance that would exclude Article 10 districts form HOME SF and supporting Dorsey and 
Peskin’s ordinance that would allow rent control in lieu of additional inclusionary 
requirements. 
After public comment, there was no discussion or questions from the Supervisors, and 
both were recommended to the Board. 
Full Board 
230058 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezone Designated RM-2 Parcel. Sponsor: Stefani. 
Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read,  
230280 General Plan - Environmental Justice Framework and General Plan Introduction. 
Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Ngo. Passed First Read