13. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
1) Welcome back. Thank you for the positive words and news, 2) I was at IKEA, I think our staff has been going to 
IKEA too and it’s been crowded and energetic. So, it’s great. Just to plug on our Housing Element rezoning efforts, 
there is an online forum open house coming up next Thursday so it’s a week from today at noon to supplement 
the work we’re already doing out in the community and the open houses we’ve held in the past couple of months. 
A couple of you have asked just broadly about the timeline for our Housing Element work and the rezoning, you 
know, as you know, January is the date we hope to be before you with the package that you could approve, to 
put forward then to the Board of Supervisors but before that, we’ll go back to the community with a more specific 
proposal in November.  We’re going to come back to you also to get your comments and direction and feedback 
on that. There will be, probably meetings in between November and January to get further comments and 
refinements from you but that’s the general schedule as we move forward on Housing Element rezoning.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
I just have a question, Director, regarding the Affordable Housing Leadership Council, are they going to make a 
report back to the Planning Commission? And when will -- 
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
Yes. I’ll get back on timing. I think it’s early next year, probably about the same time. We didn’t meet over the 
summer. We’ve kind of been in our research due diligence phase but I think we’ve got a meeting on the books 
coming, coming back in September.  So, I think, work to you later this year or early next year. But I’ll get more 
details on the timing. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay, thank you. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Director Hillis, we have been away for quite some time, the ULI panel that we had was very important including 
speaking about housing in particular parts of the city, will we be able to get updates for the Commission?  
Rich Hillis, Director of Planning: 
Yes.  
Commissioner Moore: 
In particular I think that discussion folds into also the Housing Element and [inaudible]  

San Francisco Planning Commission