5. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
6. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee 
 
221104 Planning Code - SoMa Nighttime Entertainment Uses; Leather and LGBTQ Cultural 
District. Sponsors: Dorsey; Mandelman. Staff: Starr. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 26, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 11 
 
At the land use committee hearing this week, the Supervisors considered Supervisor 
Dorsey’s ordinance that would principally permit Nighttime Entertainment on properties 
fronting Folsom Street between 7th Street and Division Street and properties fronting 11th 
Street between Howard Street and Division Street. 
 
Commissioners you’ve heard this concept twice, the most recent was on January 12 when 
you voted to recommend approval with some clarifying amendments.  
 
At this week’s hearing, Supervisor Dorsey made the requested clarifying amendments; 
however, the City Attorney’s office deemed them to be substantive and required the 
ordnance to be continued one week. 
 
221023 Planning Code - Grocery Stores in Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Flores. 
 
Next the Committee heard Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would facilitate the opening 
of Bi-Rite within the Polk Street NCD. The Ordinance would essentially allow three things: 
• Allow the expansion of an existing General Grocery Use replacing a Legacy Business 
General Grocery to exceed 4,000 sf 
• Allow a storefront merger of a General Grocery if it is related to replacing a Legacy 
Business General Grocery, only if the expansion is into a building on the same Lot; 
and 
• Remove the CU requirement if replacing a Legacy Business General Grocery with a 
General Grocery use, only if the existing General Grocery is expanded into a building 
on the same Lot 
 
Planning Commission heard this item on December 1, 2022, and unanimously 
recommended approval with the following modifications: 
• Principally permit General Grocery uses up to 5,000 square feet in all Neighborhood 
Commercial Districts. 
• Allow storefronts mergers for all proposed General Grocery uses up to 5,000 square 
feet. 
• Eliminate the CUA requirement for removing a Legacy Business General Grocery if it 
is to be replaced by another General Grocery. 
• Additionally, staff read into the record that the draft Ordinance would be amended 
to include the Section 302 findings that were missing from the Ordinance. 
 
Our understanding was that Supervisor Peskin’s office was open to making these 
recommended amendments that would have made this ordinance more widely applicable; 
however, during the hearing, President Peskin noted that he did not have the resources to 
conduct outreach to the rest of the city and would not be taking any of the Commission’s 
recommended modifications. He also emphasized the desire to move this item quickly so 
that Bi-Rite could open at this location as soon as possible. 
 
There was one caller in support. After public comments, President Peskin moved to 1) 
amend the Ordinance to adopt the Section 302 findings and 2) send the item with 
recommendation as a Committee report. Both motions passed unanimously. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 26, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 11 
 
230001 General Plan Amendments - Housing Element 2022 Update. 
 
Last but certainly not least, the Committee took up the Housing Element update. 
Commissioners, you approved the housing element update on December 15. As you know, 
the Board does not have the ability to amend the housing element once it has been 
transmitted to them. They can only accept or reject it with an or down vote on it.  
 
During the hearing, Planning Staff gave a presentation on the update and was available to 
answer questions. The Supervisors often praised planning’s work, specifically highlighting 
the community outreach that was done and the willingness to listen to community concerns 
throughout the process.  
 
The Supervisors reserved most of their questions for the Director of the Mayor’s Office of 
Housing and Community Development, Eric Shaw. Vice-Chair Preston directed questions to 
Director Shaw about whether the City has a land acquisition strategy and whether we were 
keeping track of stalled affordable housing projects.  There were also conversations about 
resource constraints and where additional funding could come from.  Peskin generally 
aligned is sentiment with Preston’s comments.  
 
Chair Melgar’s comments focused on the need to utilize high resource areas and that we 
needed to invest in infrastructure, especially on the west side. She specifically mentioned 
the need to improve our electrical infrastructure as we electrify our homes and economy to 
address climate change. She also commented that she has heard from her constituents that 
they see the need for housing at all income levels on the west side. Stating that "There are 
very, very few apartments on the west side." And she wants to make room for the next gen 
of nurses and teachers.  
 
Public comment was robust, however, I believe most people were calling in and few were in 
the chambers. Many praised the plan, but noted it was only the first step and that the city 
must take the implementation phase seriously. Others said the plan was lacking, especially 
with regards to affordable housing, but that we must pass it so that we have complaint 
housing element. A rare case in San Francisco when both sides of the issue wanted the same 
outcome.  
 
Once public comment was over, the Committee excused President Peskin from the vote. He 
had been calling in from home due to illness. The Committee then voted to recommend the 
housing element to the Full Board on a 2-0 vote with Peskin excused.  
 
Full Board 
 
221141 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 4835 Mission Street. 
Staff: Jimenez.  
 
At the Full Board this week, the Board heard the Conditional Use appeal for 4835 Mission 
Street to establish a Cannabis Retail Use with no on-site consumption. Commissioners, you 
heard this item on September 29 and voted unanimously approve.  
 
The Appellant appealed the Commission’s decision on the grounds that the project violated 
the Sunshine Ordinance’s public notice requirements; the project is within proximity of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 26, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 11 
 
Balboa High School and thus not in accordance with the required 600’ buffer requirement; 
and that there is an oversaturation of similar businesses in the area. 
 
Public comment was like what was said at the Planning Commission hearing and typical for 
Cannabis Retail uses. After public comment, Supervisor Safai asked that the sponsor commit 
to the Good Neighbor Policy and recommended that the BOS look at a future city-wide cap 
on cannabis retail. Supervisor Stefani mentioned that she is looking at legislation to do just 
that.  
 
 After that the Board voted unanimously to uphold the Planning Commission’s decision.  
 
221023 Planning Code - Grocery Stores in Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Flores. Passed First Read 
 
230001 General Plan Amendments - Housing Element 2022 Update. Passed First Read 
without any comment.  
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you, Mr. Starr. And also I just want to say thank you to staff for shepherding the 
Housing Element through and I think that we are almost at our last approval next week. So, 
we’re very much looking forward to that. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Yeah, and I should just note on that, we are expecting HCD’s certification soon after 
approval. We did get a pre-certification letter from them that basically said that if the 
Housing Element remains as you approved it, they could certify it. So we expect that to 
happen hopefully the next day. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Alright. Well done everyone. Thank you.