6.
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just to follow up. I mean, we'll certainly yeah, we recognize too, it's an impacted calendar today, but I think it is
a combination of kind of canceled meetings and the deadlines we have for certain legislation to be heard. And I 
think we're going to see more legislation, especially as we're implementing, I mean, the overarching policy is the 
Housing Element, which you know, was fairly specific on what we wanted to do as far as constraints removal and 
rezoning and allowing for more housing. So we'll try to definitely tie things back to the Housing Element where
they relate to the Housing Element. And certainly I think the HCD’s Policies and Practices review keyed off the
Housing Element. I mean, a lot of the recommendations they made were things we called out already in the
Housing Element as things we were going to do. They might have had a more aggressive timeline on them. Some 
we've already implemented, which is good news, but some are new and we'll have to implement. So we will
have a hearing on this. I think it may be best to combine it with the hearing we're planning on State legislation. 
So, as you know, there was there was a host of State bills that passed that relate to housing. So, I think our plan 
is to hopefully and we'll work with President Tanner on this couple that hearing on a briefing on the HCD report
with State legislative, the kind of the summary of State legislation. So, look for that as an upcoming item in the
calendar.
Related to that work, you'll see today in one of your items, 401 South Van Ness, we were here before when we
talked about the Housing Element, about changes we were making to our work under CEQA. And, you know,
one goal was to kind of reduce time and process that it takes us to prepare evaluations, but still give you the
information and perhaps even give it to you, we're hoping in a more, concise fashion for you and the public. And 
so, you'll see in today's calendar under 401, if you haven't already, South Van Ness, that it was our first General 
Plan evaluation. And so we were teeing off the Housing Element EIR and reformatted kind of how we do that
evaluation. You're used to seeing those under CPEs where we're keying off kind of the Eastern Neighborhoods
Plan or another plan that we've done. But again, I think it gets to the core issues that are important to you in a
clear and concise manner. But we want to hear feedback from you as you as you look at those reports and make 
your decisions. So let us know as time goes on. And that’s all I have. Thank you.
President Tanner: 
Thank you. Actually, I wonder in the intervening time I thought of a question. Jonas, we’ve talked a little bit about 
the hearing procedures staying the same. I just wanted to just say that publicly because I had a member of the

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 26, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 13 
public asked me if we were going to follow the Board of Supervisors and not have remote public comment and 
we are going to continue with this commission and unless and until the mayor directs us to do otherwise, we 
have the leeway to decide to do that. But certainly, we can, you know, have a discussion, perhaps in the future 
agendas about this practice and any other procedures that maybe myself and Kathrin as officers can talk with 
you about just to be prepared if there are a lot of public commenters or it's been fortunately very smooth for us, 
I think this last year, but just wanted to update that. I don't know if there's any other reports out, Jonas, on any 
other changes or anything.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
No, I mean, right. I mean the direction I've received so far is that the Board of Supervisors made that decision for 
their hearings not impacting any others. But at some point, the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors may direct 
all policy bodies to adopt a uniformed, remote public comment policy. But until such time, we can do as we wish 
and for now, at least, we will continue remote public comment. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Secretary Ionin, to be precise, people with particular reasons for having to call back in remote, even under the 
supervisors policy, still would be able to call in, correct?  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Correct. Members of the public who make advance requests for reasonable accommodation will still be afforded 
the opportunity to submit their public comments remotely. As far as I understand to the Board of Supervisors. 
Commissioner Moore: 
That was my understanding and I think it’s important for the public to know. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
If there is nothing further from the commissioners, I’ll just add, we’ve decided to move our November 16th 
hearing to 10 a.m. with a hard stop at three thirty. APEC conference is going to cause some significant disruption 
throughout San Francisco that week. So, I could expect potential impact to that hearing even with our time 
change. So, just a heads up. 
7.
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee
220709 Planning Code - Nighttime Entertainment Castro Street Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor:
Mandelman. Staff: Merlone.
At land use this week, the Committee considered the ordinance sponsored by Supervisor Mandelman that would 
allow Nighttime Entertainment on the second floor in the Castro NCD. This item was continued from last week
because the added amendments were substantive. This week, representatives from the Castro CBD spoke in
favor of the proposed amendments. There were no opposition speakers. Supervisor Melgar made a motion to
send as a committee report; however, Supervisor Peskin stated that he’d prefer to send it without a
recommendation to be consistent with his past votes on the Castro Theater project. Supervisor Melgar then
rescinded her motion and made another to send it to the Board without recommendation as a committee report. 
The motion passed unanimously. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 26, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 13 
Full Board 
231042 Mayoral Appointment, Historic Preservation Commission - Amy Campbell. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Ionin. 
Adopted 
220709 Planning Code - Nighttime Entertainment Castro Street Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Tanner. Commissioners, Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator, the Board of Appeals 
did meet last night. The only item they considered that was of interest to the Commission is for a case at 1228 
Funston. This was a project that actually the Commission saw twice for two different discretionary review cases. 
The most recent one, the Planning Commission took DR and denied the project. That permit denial was appealed. 
As you may remember, there were some questions about the applicability of the Housing Accountability Act in 
that case, and last night the Board heard the case but continued it to December to basically get more information 
on the Housing Accountability Act, issues related to the project before making a final decision. But that was it. 
Thank you.