6.
Director’s Announcements
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just want to mention, if you didn't see it in the papers,
Sarah Dennis Phillips, who was with the Planning Department and then with Economic
Development, and you've seen her here representing Tishman in projects they have in the
city, has rejoined the City as the head of Economic Development. So, we're excited to have
her back in the City and I'm sure she'll be here to talk with us about efforts, especially
Downtown, which I know will be one of her priorities leading the Department. So, just 
wanted to make you aware of that. The mayor also introduced our budget yesterday and
we will have hearings at the board starting the week of the 12th. They'll look at the budget
for those next two weeks and then adopt it by the end of the month. So, we'll keep you
posted on any changes to our budget. Thanks.
President Tanner:
Great. That did remind me of just one thing I wanted to say, which is to complement the
staff and all those who participated in the advisory services panel. Did I get that right?

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 1, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 9 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Yes, the ULI. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yes, the ULI advisory Services panel. Myself, Commissioner Diamond, and Vice President 
Moore got to go to the presentation. It was fantastic, superb. So, I really am looking 
forward to finalizing the report. And I know we won't have all of the guest speakers here, 
but some of them I think hopefully can join us remotely. It was just really top notch and I 
think exciting for me was that half of the panelists were local folks. So, they're gonna be 
able to keep that knowledge and understanding that they gain from partners from 
Philadelphia, Los Angeles, we had Manhattan and Detroit, other cities I think Seattle 
maybe was in there as well…  
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
New Orleans. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
And New Orleans and folks that worked in multiple cities. So, they may, bringing 
knowledge from cities they'd worked in even though they may be working in a specific city 
at this point in their career. So, it's really fantastic and very much looking forward to having 
that shared more broadly, not only with the Commission, but hopefully all those who were 
interviewed and helped to participate in those recommendations. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, just to follow up, the report’s due in August, but hopefully we can have a hearing on 
their recommendations even prior to that.  
 
 
President Tanner: 
Yeah, that would be fantastic. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Yeah. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
The eloquence of the panelist was so amazing that I would like to see that the Commission, 
as well as a Board of Supervisors, see the video reporting of those comments. There's 
hardly any way to transcribe or replicate of how these speakers, how these people spoke 
and the depths of knowledge they have brought to the table. That is almost impossible to 
capture and I would everybody love to see it and have a full stand witness of that.  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, absolutely. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Thank you.  
 
 
President Tanner: 
Definitely second that. Thank you very much.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 1, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commissions Secretary: 
 
There are no reports for any of these bodies. However, I will note that Robert Vergara was 
confirmed and sworn in to replace Commissioner Johns on the Historic Preservation 
Commission. And so his first hearing maybe the Joint next week.