14. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
15. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee 
230505 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural Center Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: Pantoja. 
This week the Land Use committee considered the proposed SUD at 45th and Wawona for the Irish Cultural 
Center. This was heard by the Planning Commission on July 27 of this year, and you recommend approval. 
After Planning Commission approval, however, it came to light that this change needed to be brought to the 
Coastal Commission. As a result, the item has been stalled at the Board for few weeks. This week, the sponsor 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 2, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 13 
 
of this ordinance, Joe Engardio, proposed amendments to the ordinance indicating that the ordinance was 
required to be sent to the Coastal Commission. Those amendments were made and accepted. 
There were several public commentators on this item, mostly in objection to the proposal. There was also 
sharp criticism of the Planning Department and its failure to send this to the Coastal Commission.  
The item was eventually continued to November 27th because the amendments were substantive.  
230701 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores.  
Next the Committee considered the mayor’s ordinance titled “Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, 
Restaurant, and Retail Uses.” 
The goal of the Ordinance is to build on Prop. H and the Small Business Recovery Acts. The Ordinance reduces 
barriers small businesses face when opening or expanding into a new space. The Ordinance also allows more 
business types to be principally permitted on the ground floor in commercial areas. 
The Planning Commission heard this item on September 7th and recommended approval with modification. 
First three modifications have been incorporated into the Ordinance: 1) combining the Priority Processing 
and CB3P programs since they were largely overlapping and created confusion, 2) eliminating the Mission 
Street Formula Retail Restaurant Subdistrict because the Ordinance changes made this subdistrict 
redundant, and 3) mirroring the LCCU Use Size limitations for the new eligible districts. 
The last recommended modification was to continue to regulate Retail Professional Services and Non-Retail 
Professional Services separately and maintain two separate definitions because of the different impacts they 
have on the neighborhood. The Ordinance retains the status quo of keeping Retail Professional Service and 
Non-Retail Professional Services as separate definitions. However, it now allows Non-Retail Professional 
Services on the ground floor with CUA in most neighborhoods. 
OSB Director Tang provided a summary of the amendments incorporating Planning Commission 
recommendations as noted, as well as other recommendations in response to Supervisor concerns and 
discussions with community members. 
Supervisors Peskin, Ronen, and Melgar expressed concerns about the difficulty for small business owners in 
getting through the permitting process, beyond Planning Code regulations, and cited examples where 
applicants were provided wrong information by DBI, DPH and other permitting agencies. Sup. Ronen urged 
the Departments to provide restitution to applicants to help respond to the wasted time and money when 
applicants are misinformed. 
There were 7 public comments with about half in support of the legislation for its efforts to make it easier for 
small businesses to open. Some public commenters agreed with the Supervisors’ comments that there needs 
to be better coordination between the agencies to respond to and guide applicants. 
Chair Melgar made a motion to adopt the recommendations as described by Director Tang and the item was 
continued to November 27th. 
230443 Planning and Subdivision Codes, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Engardio and 
Dorsey. Staff: Starr. Item 4 
Lastly, the mayor’s constrains reduction ordinance was considered by the Committee. Supervisor Melgar 
gave opening remarks about how she is working with the mayor’s office on amendments to resolve some 
outstanding issues. She also addresses the Standards and Practices letter sent by HCD. She then indicated 
that the amendments were not yet signed to form and that the item would be continued.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 2, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 13 
 
Supervisor Mandelman was there as well and introduced amendments that would remove the CU in the 
Corona Heights SUD and Central Neighborhoods Large Homes SUD and replace it with a cap on unit size. The 
ordinance was duplicated and Mandelman’s amendments were added to the duplicated file. The duplicated 
will be coming back to you for your review and recommendation because the amendments had not been 
considered by the Planning Commission.  
There were public commenters, most of them in opposition to the ordinance, but fewer than in other 
hearings. At the end of the hearing the item was continued to the November 27 land use hearing.  
 
Full Board 
220709 Planning Code - Nighttime Entertainment Castro Street Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor: 
Mandelman. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night and took action on one case of interest to the Commission.  The building 
permit for an addition to a home at 1334 12th Avenue was heard as a Discretionary Review by the Planning 
Commission in September of last year. While the hearing was somewhat contentious, the Commission ultimately 
voted unanimously to not take DR and approve the project with modifications made prior to the hearing. The 
DR requestor appealed the permit to the Board of Appeals and last night’s discussion focused primarily on the 
accuracy of the project’s plans which had been revised post-DR to address some inaccuracies related to the 
adjacent building. The Board was eventually satisfied with the accuracy of the plans, especially with DBI’s 
assurance of a pre-construction inspection. The Board determined that the project was consistent with the 
residential design guidelines and voted unanimously to deny the appeal.  
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday as well and there are two matters, I think that might 
be of interest to the Planning Commission. The first being a State Density Bonus project at the property at 2395 
Sacramento Street, a Certificate of Appropriateness for a landmark building. Landmark 115 that proposed Seven-
story over a basement addition at the east elevation and a six-story addition at the south elevation. There were 
quite a large number of community folks come out in opposition to the increase in height and impact to their 
district, however, the Historic Preservation Commission ended up approving with amendments to include a 
condition that staff review final materials for compatibility and treatment of the sand stone to meet the Secretary 
of Interior Standards, and to include a finding recommending that the interior art murals be preserved once they 
are removed. The second item that may be of interest to the Planning Commission was their adoption of a 
Recommendation for Approval to landmark the Alexandria Theatre at 5400 Geary Boulevard.