6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I also wanted to mention Claudia Flores is leaving as well. She took a promotion with the 
Office of Racial Equity, citywide. You know, taking kind of what she does for us and 
expanding it to the entire city. So, I've also invited her to come back if, if it's okay with the 
Commission, so we can thank her for her role. And we'll be working to fill that position as 
well. So, you know, congratulations to her. I think that HRC recognized the critical work she 
did for us and what she, how she can expand that citywide and recruited her for that 
position. So that's great for her, but it’s certainly a loss for us. But we'll have the 
opportunity to thank both of them personally here in, next week or the future week. I also 
wanted to mention some of you participated in some of the interviews and tours that ULI 
is doing, the Urban Land Institute. They've got a technical services panel, which is, they 
bring in experts from other cities and it was primarily Planning Directors and Economic 
Development Directors and community leaders in ULI working with this (inaudible) to kind 
of think about some of the issues we have downtown - filling vacant office space, potential 
conversions to residential, how we can activate ground floor commercial spaces, how we 
can attract new users, both commercial and residential, to our existing buildings. So, 
they've had tours. I think they interviewed over 50 stakeholders. I think some of you did 
participate in that, and they’re going to present a report to the City. I think they're going to 
give initial findings to the Mayor’s Office and some departments this afternoon. They'll 
follow up that with a formal report that we'll have here at the Commission, so you can, you 
can comment and opine on it. So, we're looking forward to that. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Certainly congratulations to Claudia. It will definitely be a loss for the department, but glad 
she's staying with the City. So, certainly being able to still help San Francisco overall and 
still work with our department, you know, just from a different angle. Thank you, Director 
Hills. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 25, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 8 
 
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee 
 
230297 Initiating Landmark Designation - Westwood Park Entrance Gates and Pillars. 
Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: TBD. Recommended 
 
230212 Planning, Building, Fire Codes - Small Business Month Fee Waivers Including for 
Awning Installation. Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: V. Flores. Recommended 
 
Over the last few week the land use committee recommended to the Full Board the 
initiation of the landmark designation for the Westwood Park Entrance Gates and Pillars, 
and the Small Business Month Fee Waiver ordinance sponsored by Supervisor Edgardio.  
 
230164 Planning Code - Non-Conforming Public Parking Lots in the Mission Street NCT 
District. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: Starr. Item 1 
 
This week the land use committee considered the ordinance that would allow the 
continued use of existing shared spaces in the Mission Street NCT District without 
triggering abandonment of the underlying parking lot use. Commissioners, you heard this 
item on April 20 as a consent item and recommended approval. The ordinance is intended 
to allow Casement’s bar to legalize their pandemic era outdoor activity area, while still 
maintaining the underling use should that outdoor activity area ever be removed. There 
were no comments from the Supervisors, but one of the owners of the Casements bar 
spoke in favor of the ordinance during public comment. The committee then voted to 
recommend this item to the Full Board.  
 
Full Board 
 
221021 Planning, Administrative Codes - HOME-SF. Sponsors: Dorsey; Peskin. Staff: V. 
Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 
221105 Planning Code - HOME-SF. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 
230212 Planning, Building, Fire Codes - Small Business Month Fee Waivers Including for 
Awning Installation. Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 
230297 Initiating Landmark Designation - Westwood Park Entrance Gates and Pillars. 
Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: TBD. Adopted 
 
230192 Planning Code - Landmark Designation Amendment - 429-431 Castro Street (the 
Castro Theatre). Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Westhoff. Continued to June 6, 2023 
 
230435 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 301 Toland Street. 
Staff: Samonsky.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, May 25, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 8 
 
230439 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 1160 Mission Street. 
Staff: Foster.  
 
Finally, this week the Board heard two CU appeals. The first was an appeal of the 
Conditional Use authorization at 310 Toland that included a change of use from Wholesale 
Storage to a Private Parking Garage. The other was for the Conditional Use authorization at 
1160 Mission Street that included a change of use from Public Parking Garage to Fleet 
Charging. This Commission heard these on March 16 and March 30 respectively and voted 
to recommend approval for both.  
 
Both CU appeal petitions were signed by all 11 Board members. The issues stated for both 
were that the approval of the CU Authorization was just a cover for approval of a Parcel 
Delivery Service. Staff response was that the approval was for the uses identified in the 
approval Motion and nothing else. If the applicant does operate a Parcel Delivery Service 
on the premises, then they are in violation of their CU approval.  
 
For 301 Toland, there was a robust conversation. Several members of the Board believe 
that the true use would be parcel delivery use given that the operator was Waymo. 
Supervisor Walton wanted a guarantee from Planning that parcel delivery use would not 
occur at the site, which obviously we could not give. Concerns were also expressed over 
how the parking garage use supports or upholds the City’s Transit First Policy. There were 
also concerns expressed over the conversion of PDR to a non-PDR use. 
 
During public comment there were over 25 speakers, primarily union representatives all in 
favor of the appeal. In the end the BOS voted unanimously to overturn the Planning 
Commission’s approval and disapprove CUA. 
 
For 1160 Mission Street, the appellant and project sponsor reached a settlement 
agreement prior to the hearing, adding an additional condition of approval; therefore, 
there were only brief remarks from the appellant and project sponsor with no staff 
presentation requested by the BOS. There were two remote speakers in support of the 
project with the proposed amendments. The Board then voted to amend the CU approval 
with a conditions that just reiterated that the approval was to operate Fleet Charging and 
does not permit the operation of a Parcel Delivery Service. 
 
The Board then voted unanimously to approve the amended CUA.