8.
Director’s Announcements
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
Good afternoon, Commissioners, and happy new year. Welcome back. Hope you enjoyed 
your break. Two quick updates. First, on the Citywide Cultural Resources Survey work that
we are undertaking. I just want to let you know that we hit a milestone yesterday where
we actually started the field survey portion of our work. Obviously, it was not the greatest
day to start that work out in the field, but we did start. I think we are taking a break today.
We started in Japantown, we will next move to neighborhood commercial districts
throughout the city, and we expect this work to take about 3-4 years to complete the
entire city, but it is a big milestone. We have talked about this survey for decades so it’s
good to get underway on the field survey portion of it. And then, second, on the Housing
Element, 1) again, thank you for all the work and guidance and direction and all the work
you did last year in getting us to an approval. I did want to let you know that the appeal
period for the Housing Element EIR expired the Monday before Christmas and we didn’t
receive an appeal so we will move next to the Board of Supervisor. The schedule remains
the same although they won’t have the need to take up an appeal. Just to remind you of
the schedule, we are expecting to be at Land Use Committee at the board on the 23rd and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 5, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
then to the full board on the 24th and 31st. Hopefully then signed by the mayor on the 31st 
and approved by HCD that same day if not the next day. So that’s the schedule. And that’s 
all I have. Thanks. 
 
President Tanner: 
Thank you, Director Hillis. I did have a question if we have received any -have received or 
expect to receive any further feedback from HCD? Our understanding was the changes we 
made were in response to their last round of comments and have already been vetted with 
them in collaboration with staff but just curious if we expect to hear anything from them 
before the board approves, and the mayor signs them, the Housing Element? 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, we don’t, I mean, they certainly could make additional comments. And you’re right, 
we did, the changes we made were in response to their comments. So, we have set what 
you all adopted to them for their final comment and review. We hope that’s what the 
board ultimately approves and that they can approve it saying that we believe we’ve 
addressed their comments from the last round in that iteration. So, we’re not expecting to 
hear more, but we could.  
 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. Thank you. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
If there, just in case, there could be changes or additional questions, would you please 
keep us posted of what direction they are turning. 
 
 Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Absolutely. We’ll let you know, and we’ll send you an email once we get any word from 
them on schedule changes or their approval. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Okay. Thank you so much. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thanks. 
 
9. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
The Board of Supervisors have not met this week yet and the Board of Appeals had no 
items of interest to the Planning Commission. The Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday, remotely as well. And, after experiencing some technical difficulties and 
getting a very late start, we were able to have a hearing and they heard informational 
presentations on the African American Historic Context Statement and on the Mills Act 
Program. I would also like to advise the Commission that I have received word from Media 
Services that indeed this is being broadcast in our chambers and that no one is in the 
chamber. So, I’m glad that our outreach and noticing efforts were heard and no one 
wasted their time coming down to City Hall. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 5, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 9