6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I also wanted to mention Claudia Flores is leaving as well. She took a promotion with the 
Office of Racial Equity, citywide. You know, taking kind of what she does for us and 
expanding it to the entire city. So, I've also invited her to come back if, if it's okay with the 
Commission, so we can thank her for her role. And we'll be working to fill that position as 
well. So, you know, congratulations to her. I think that HRC recognized the critical work she 
did for us and what she, how she can expand that citywide and recruited her for that 
position. So that's great for her, but it’s certainly a loss for us. But we'll have the 
opportunity to thank both of them personally here in, next week or the future week. I also 
wanted to mention some of you participated in some of the interviews and tours that ULI 
is doing, the Urban Land Institute. They've got a technical services panel, which is, they 
bring in experts from other cities and it was primarily Planning Directors and Economic 
Development Directors and community leaders in ULI working with this (inaudible) to kind 
of think about some of the issues we have downtown - filling vacant office space, potential 
conversions to residential, how we can activate ground floor commercial spaces, how we 
can attract new users, both commercial and residential, to our existing buildings. So, 
they've had tours. I think they interviewed over 50 stakeholders. I think some of you did 
participate in that, and they’re going to present a report to the City. I think they're going to 
give initial findings to the Mayor’s Office and some departments this afternoon. They'll 
follow up that with a formal report that we'll have here at the Commission, so you can, you 
can comment and opine on it. So, we're looking forward to that. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Certainly congratulations to Claudia. It will definitely be a loss for the department, but glad 
she's staying with the City. So, certainly being able to still help San Francisco overall and 
still work with our department, you know, just from a different angle. Thank you, Director 
Hills. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission