11. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
12. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Leg affairs. It’s been a while since 
I’ve presented so a few things have moved through the process. Also, the Land Use 
committee has not met for the past two weeks. 
 
Since I last presented… 
230164 Planning Code - Non-Conforming Public Parking Lots in the Mission Street NCT 
District. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 29, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 14 
 
230192 Planning Code - Landmark Designation Amendment - 429-431 Castro Street (the 
Castro Theatre). Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Westhoff. PASSED Second Read 
230371 Planning and Building Codes - Commercial to Residential Adaptive Reuse and 
Downtown Economic Revitalization. Sponsors: Mayor; Peskin. Staff: Langlois. Second Read, 
Item 14 
230493 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - The Church for the Fellowship of All 
Peoples. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. Second Read, Item 15 
230447 Building, Planning Codes - Existing Awning Amnesty Program. Sponsors: Mayor; 
Peskin, Stefani, Chan and Preston. Staff: Merlone. First Read, Item 27 
 
This week at the Board there were three appeals, A CEQA appeal and a CU appeal for 1151 
Washington Street, and a CU appeal for 3832 18th Street. 
 
230592 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - 
Proposed 1151 Washington Street Project. Staff: Gibson. Item 38-41 
230630 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 1151 Washington 
Street. Staff: May. Items 42-45 
 
The project at 1151 Washington Street proposes to utilize the State Density Bonus 
Program to demolish the existing single-family dwelling on the subject property and 
construct a four-story building containing 10 dwelling units. On April 20, 2023, the 
Commission approved the Project. 
 
Regarding the CEQA appeal, the appellants argued that the project is not eligible for a 
Class 32 exemption, due to "unusual circumstances" related to shadow on the Betty Ann 
Ong Recreation Center, known soil contamination, geotechnical issues, fire department 
access and construction air quality.  
 
During the hearing, Supervisors considered the project site's location (uphill and adjacent 
to the Betty Ong Recreation Center) to be an unusual circumstance. They also called into 
question our practice of only looking at shadow impacts for projects that are over 40 feet 
in height.  
 
The Department of Public Health was asked to explain the site mitigation plan. The 
supervisors called into question whether or not these measures would be adequate given 
that the project is adjacent to a playground, as well as concerns about the contaminants 
present on the property.  
 
The Board also raised the issue of emergency access and agreed with the appellant that 
the project would create unusual circumstances related to fire access primarily due to the 
long narrow shape of the parcel, and the fact that access would be provided along a 
narrow 5-foot-wide pathway.    
 
There were four commentors in support of the appeal; comments were largely focused on 
the shadow impacts of the project, although the hazardous materials and fire department 
access concerns were mentioned.  
 
There were 11 commentors in support of the project; comments were focused on the need 
for housing, and concerns about HCD's interest and potential consequences if the appeal 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 29, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 14 
 
were upheld. Some commentors noted that new shadow on parks should be balanced 
with the need for housing, and that new shadow should not preclude residential 
development.  
 
Ultimately, the Board upheld the CEQA appeal and reversed the categorical exemption. 
Once findings for the Board’s action are complete, the department will then review them 
to determine the path forward on the project’s CEQA review and discuss next steps with 
the project sponsor.  
 
Because the CEQA appeal was upheld, it negated the Planning Commission’s approval of 
the Conditional Use authorization, so that appeal hearing was tabled.  
 
230634 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 3832-18th Street. 
Staff: Horn. Item 46-49 
 
Finally, the Board denied the appeal for 3832-18th Street and upheld the Planning 
Commission’s approval of the project. This was a State Density Bonus project and included 
a Conditional Use authorization for modifications to a previously approved demolition of 
an existing two-story, single-family residence and the construction of a six-story, 
residential building containing 19 group housing units. 
 
The Project‘s conditional use authorization had been appealed for a second time after the 
Commission’s approval on April 20, 2023.  
 
The Project was the subject of a Notice of Violation from the California Department of 
Housing and Community Development (HCD) stating that the City denied the height 
waiver by conditioning the project at five stories, and not allowing six stories.