6. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I think we’ve covered everything. Just the one other point which is Housing Element 
implementation related as we had a meeting last night about the site permit process. It 
was a public meeting to get input from customers, users, of our permitting process. We 
hosted it with DBI. Ms. Watty and Mr. Christiansen kind of led the charge in answering 
questions and talking about potential reforms to our site permit process. So well received. 
We got good feedback and you’re going to hear the [inaudible] in our joint meeting with 
DBI. If I can also add, if we can also adjourn today’s meeting in honor of Eleanor Johns who 
passed away recently too. She was Mayor Brown’s Chief of Staff for decades, both in 
Sacramento and here at City Hall, and also was the wife of Richard Johns who is a 
Commissioner on the Historic Preservation Commission.    
 
Commissioner Diamond: 
And also chair at the Airport Land Use Commission. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 7 of 19 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
Yeah. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Certainly, thank you. And maybe lastly, I don’t know if you have any comments Director on 
the Mayor’s legislation that was introduced also earlier this week or if Mr. Starr may be 
addressing that in his comments. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. And so again it feeds off the Housing Element. Many of the recommendations we 
had are the requirements in the Housing Element, were put in the legislation that the 
Mayor has to improve the process, it reduces hearings and CUs and other things we’ll get 
into when the legislation is before us. We’ll also hear a little bit about it next week. We’ve 
got more of a broader overview on Housing Element implementation so we’ll touch on it 
then but we’ll also talk more about it and get your recommendations in a month or so. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Great. Thank you. 
  
7. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of legislative affairs.  
 
It’s been a minute. I hope you enjoyed your break, and happy 420 to all who celebrate. It’s 
actually been an auspicious week; this past Saturday was 415 Day or the day SF was 
incorporated in 1850. Tuesday was the anniversary of the 1906 earthquake and fire, and 
yesterday was Bicycle Day. For those that don’t know, Bicycle Day commemorates the first 
recorded LSD "trip" by Swiss scientist Albert Hofmann in 1943. Apparently, Hoffman rode 
his bike home after ingesting ¼ mg of LSD, hence Bicycle Day.  Yesterday was also my 
husband’s 70th birthday. A self-described old hippie who unfortunately likes the Grateful 
Dead, it’s fitting he shares a birthday with first LSD trip. So, a shout out to my wonderful 
husband, Bill Weber, happy birthday. Moving on…  
 
Land Use Committee 
 
221105 Planning Code - HOME-SF. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
221021 Planning, Administrative Codes - HOME-SF. Sponsors: Dorsey; Peskin. Staff: V. 
Flores.  
 
Both HOME SF ordinances were continued for one week. 
 
220340 Planning Code - Neighborhood Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts. 
Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Starr.  
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 8 of 19 
 
Also, this week, the Committee considered the long-stalled Article 8 Reorganization 
ordinance, also known as Neighborhood Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts 
ordinance, sponsored by Supervisor Dorsey. The Commission may recall this ordinance has 
been continued several times. This commission heard the ordinance on November 17th of 
2022, and voted to recommend approval with modifications. Those modifications 
included: 
1. Exempt Childcare Facilities and Residential Care Facilities from FAR limits in the 
South Park, RED and RED-MX zoning districts. 
2. Remove the language referencing adequate lighting and the Planning 
Department’s lighting guidelines from the definition of Walk-Up Facility.  
3. Principally permit Nighttime Entertainment on properties fronting Folsom Street 
between 7th Street and Division Street and properties fronting 11th Street 
between Howard Street and Division Street. and 
4. Encourage the Entertainment Commission to evaluate how best to mitigate 
impacts in RED and RED-MX districts from noise and other quality of life impacts 
related to Nighttime Entertainment uses. 
 
Supervisor Dorsey did add those amendments at a previous committee hearing. Supervisor 
Peskin also made some minor amendments intended to maintain existing controls for 
adult businesses at a past hearing. 
 
This week, with only a short presentation from Supervisor Dorsey’s aide Madison Tam, the 
Committee voted unanimously to move the item forward with a positive recommendation. 
 
220971 Planning Code - Gates, Railings, and Grillwork Exceptions for Cannabis Retail Uses 
and Existing Non-Residential Uses. Sponsor: Safai. Staff: Merlone. Item 5 
 
Next on the docket was Supervisor Safai’s ordinance that would exempt certain existing 
gates, railings, and grillwork from transparency requirements; create an amnesty program 
for existing non-conforming gates; and exempt Cannabis Retail uses from transparency 
requirements for gates. Commissioners, you heard this item on December 8th of last year 
and voted to approve the ordinance with modifications. The Commission’s proposed 
modifications were: 
1. Require artwork on all solid security gates. 
2. Allow 3 years for businesses with a non-compliant security gate to apply for a permit 
to legalize the gate. Businesses that failed to legalize would then be subject to the 
existing security gate requirements.  
3. Clarify that the amnesty program does not exempt historic buildings from other 
required review procedures; and  
4. Instruct the Commission to adopt objective design standards for gate mechanisms. 
 
At the Land Use Committee hearing two weeks ago, Supervisor Safai introduced a host of 
amendments, including: 
1. Change the transparency requirement for ALL security gates in the City from 75% 
open, to at least 20% open; 
2. Require all new gates to have a “viewing window” at least 10 inches in height for 
fire safety; 
3. Require Cannabis businesses who propose to install a new gate that is less than 
20% open to also install a mural on that gate; 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 9 of 19 
 
4. Require businesses with existing, non-conforming gates to file a building permit 
within 3 years to legalize the gate. Those that do not meet that deadline would be 
subject to fines; however, the business owner could still legalize their non-
conforming gate, and; 
5. Remove the provision requiring gate mechanisms to be laid flush with or receded 
behind storefronts but require both the mechanisms and gates to comply with any 
adopted objective design standards. 
 
After some brief discussion the Committee voted unanimously to adopt Sup. Safai’s 
amendments before continuing the item for two weeks. This week the item was passed 
out of committee with little to no discussion.  
 
230192 Planning Code - Landmark Designation Amendment - 429-431 Castro Street (the 
Castro Theatre). Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Westhoff.  
 
Also a few weeks ago, the Land Use Committee considered amendments to the Castro 
Theatre’s Landmark designation. While the Castro theater is already landmark, this new 
ordinance would revise the landmark designation to include portions of the interior. The 
HPC heard this item on February 1st, 2023 and voted to approve the amendments as 
proposed by staff. 
 
At the hearing there were numerous members of the public many who urged the 
Committee to landmark the seat.  
 
Supervisor Mandelman urged the Committee members to continue the item two weeks 
and in the meantime instruct the City Attorney to draft amendment language that would 
include fixed theatrical seating as part of the Landmark designation. It was the Supervisor’s 
hope that in the intervening two weeks the sponsor, APE, would work with the community 
to address their concerns regarding preserving the integrity of the space as a movie palace. 
If that happened, the amendment would no longer be necessary. 
 
After hearing public comment, the Committee agreed to continue the item two weeks, 
and urged APE to work with the community in the interim.  
 
This week the committee took the issue up again. During public comment, which took a 
few hours, both sides of the argument were well represented. After the public comment 
period, the committee voted to include fixed raked seating as a character defining feature 
and forwarded the item to the full board on a 2-1 vote. Supervisor Melgar voted against 
the motion.   
 
Full Board 
 
220340 Planning Code - Neighborhood Commercial and Mixed Use Zoning Districts. 
Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Starr. Passed First Read 
 
220971 Planning Code - Gates, Railings, and Grillwork Exceptions for Cannabis Retail Uses 
and Existing Non-Residential Uses. Sponsor: Safai. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 10 of 19 
 
230285 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 800 Taraval Street. 
Staff: Alexander.  
 
Also, this week, the Board considered the Conditional Use appeal for the Cannabis Retail 
use proposed at 800 Taraval St, doing business as The Green Mirror.  The new use would 
occupy a mezzanine space above the Italian Restaurant named The Gold Mirror.  This 
commission heard the item on February 2, 2023, and voted unanimously to approve the 
project.  
 
The appellant had three reasons for filing the appeal. Those were 1) Misrepresentation and 
lack of notice of on-site consumption, 2) Misrepresentation of the restaurant as vacant 
storefront, and 3) Incompatibility with neighborhood/Failure to alter the neighborhood for 
the better. 
 
Public comment in favor of the appeal was lengthy, and the issues brought up were like 
what this commission heard during it’s hearing on the matter. There were no commentors 
in support of the project. 
 
After Staff’s presentation, Supervisor Melgar asked staff questions about the approval, 
specifically why on-site consumption was called out as an accessory use for the business 
when the applicant had no intention of doing on-site consumption, and why the space 
was described as vacant when it had been used as a restaurant.  
 
Staff response was that the accessory use is allowed by the Planning Code, but that calling 
it out in the Resolution wasn’t necessary. Further, we would be reevaluating how we draft 
these approval motions in the future. Regarding the space, it was vacant when the 
application was submitted due to COVID, but also staff visited the space more recently and 
it was not being used by the restaurant at the time.  Melgar also expressed sympathy for 
the speakers in favor of the appeal, noting that our process can be overly bureaucratic, and 
can make people feel as if they are not being heard. 
 
 Supervisor Stefani also spoke, stating her support for the appeal and concern that the 
Cannabis Retail use wasn’t appropriate at this location given that several surrounding uses 
catered to children. Supervisor Edgardio also spoke in favor of the appellants, noting that 
the neighborhood was clearly against this cannabis retail location.  
 
Supervisor Melgar then made a motion to overturn the Commission’s action, and amend 
the approval to include additional conditions, which included: 
Maintaining all of the Commission’s conditions of approval, except hours of operation, 
which she amended to be from 9 am to 9 pm, instead of 10 pm; no onsite consumption of 
eddibles or smoking and vaping; deliveries can only take place between 9 am and 4:30 pm; 
and additional good neighbor policies related to community engagement, parking and 
loitering.  
 
When put to a vote the motion to overturn and amend the Commission’s approval passed 
on a 9-2 vote, with Supervisors Stefani and Engardio voting against the motion. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 20, 2023 
 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
 
      Page 11 of 19 
 
Laura Lynch, Acting Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. The recommended approval of 
three legacy business applications. Pirro’s Pizzeria at 2244 Taraval Street, Ng Hing Kee at 
648 Jackson Street and Maitri Compassionate Care at 401 Duboce Avenue. They also 
Recommended Landmark Designation to the Board of Supervisors for The Church For The 
Fellowship Of All Peoples (2041 Larkin Street). Lastly, they Adopted a Recommendation for 
a legislative item - Commercial To Residential Adaptive Reuse And Downtown Economic 
Revitalization that you will be hearing in a couple of weeks. No report from the Board of 
Appeals