11. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
12. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioner’s, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affair’s.  
 
Land Use  
220340 Planning Code - Neighborhood Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts. 
Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Starr.  
 
The week, the Committee considered Sup. Dorsey Article 8 Reorg which also includes other 
substantive amendments. Supervisor Dorsey made some additional minor amendments, 
none of them were deemed substantive; however, Supervisor Peskin asked the item be 
continued for two weeks. He would like this ordinance, which has a minor upzoning in it by 
allowing 100% affordable group housing the SALI district, to be paired with another 
ordinance that would prohibit Home SF in Article 10 Districts. 
 
220878 Planning, Building Codes - Penalties for Code Enforcement. Sponsors: Ronen; 
Peskin and Chan. Staff: Merlone. 
 
Also on the docket and continued, was Supervisor Ronen’s ordinance that would amend 
Penalties for Code Enforcement in the Planning Code. Proposed amendments were not yet 
drafted and signed to form, so the sponsor requested an extra week.  
 
221261 Planning Code, Zoning Map - The Village Special Use District. Sponsor: Mayor. 
Staff: Westhoff. 
 
One item did make it out of committee, that was the Village SUD. This item would create 
an SUD to facilitate the development of “The Village”, a mixed-use facility specifically 
serving San Francisco’s Native American population. The 6-story, 41,000 sq. ft. building will 
include a youth recreation and development center, an elder services center and 
community gathering, youth programs and other social services, a dental clinic, a medical 
clinic and group housing rooms.  
 
Commissioners you heard this on January 26, and recommended approval for both the 
SUD and the CUA. The Conditional Use approval is contingent upon the SUD becoming 
effective. 
 
During the hearing, Planning presented the item on behalf of the mayor’s office. There 
were two speakers from the project team, and about a dozen or more public commentors, 
all in favor. Once public comment was done all supervisors on the committee praised the 
project and asked to be added as cosponsors. The item was then sent to the Full Board 
with a positive recommendation.  

San Francisco Planning Commission