11. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 11 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just two things. One, the Mayor and Supervisor Peskin had an event this 
morning where the Mayor signed 2 pieces of housing legislation that you have seen. One is the temporary 
reduction in the inclusionary housing rate and then the accompanying fee reduction. It happened at 395 Third 
Street, which is a project you heard a couple of weeks ago. That is moving faster because of this reduction. There 
was a – a press release highlighted a couple of other projects, 770 Woolsey which is in the Portola which is, got 
a boost and is moving faster as a result of the legislation. 988 Market which is a conversion from office to 
residential that you actually won’t hear because the Downtown legislation that passed no longer requires that 
to come to the Commission. So, some good news and good news that projects are taking advantage of it and 
moving forward. They also announced, I think yesterday or the day before, the introduction of a $300 million 
housing bond to the Board of Supervisors. So, all very much aligned with the housing element and what you 
passed and adopted as our housing element. So, good news. I also wanted to highlight, I don’t think, are you 
talking about 2550 Irving at the Board of Appeals? Just if Aaron is not going to report, 2550 Irving was at the 
Board of Appeals last night for a rehearing request. I was there. I think it was the fourth time this project has been 
heard. It’s presumably an SB 35 ministerial project but it’s hard to kind of guess that by how many time it’s 
actually been before the Board of Appeals but the Board of Appeals rejected the rehearing request and the 
project is going to move forward. So, good news on that. That’s all I have.    
President Tanner: 
Great, thank you for some good news and I guess some good news but bad news that it had to take so long to 
get not heard again. So, thank you for being there. 
12. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr manager of Legislative Affairs. 
Land Use Committee 
230505 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural Center Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Engardio. Sponsor.  
This week at the Land use Committee, the Irish Cultural Center was on the agenda, but because of some 
questions over Coastal Zone permitting, the item was continued to October 30th. 
230855 Planning, Administrative Codes - Development Impact Fee Reductions. Sponsors: Peskin; Safai and 
Mandelman. Staff: Grob.  
Also on the agenda was the duplicate ordinance for the Inclusionary Fee reduction. As I reported last week, the 
original ordinance has already been approved by the Board and will soon be signed by the mayor. This week, the 
duplicated ordinance was amended by Supervisor Safai to include inclusionary rate reductions for projects with 
10-24 units that are currently in the pipeline. While Supervisor Preston voted against the original file, he did vote 
in favor of the proposed amendments so that it could move to the full board. The other two committee members 
also voted to include the amendments. Because these amendments were substantive, the item was continued 
for one week. 
230817 Interim Zoning Controls - Extending and Modifying Conditional Use Authorization Requirement for 
Parcel Delivery Service Uses. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: V. Flores. Item 5 
Next on the agenda was a resolution extending the interim controls that require CU authorization for all Parcel 
Delivery Services. This item has not come to this commission because it is an interim control. The current controls 
have been in place for a year and resolution under consideration by the Land Use Committee would extend the 
controls for another 6 months.  
Originally introduced by Supervisor Walton, the sponsorship was transferred to Supervisor Dorsey, because of a 
conflict of interest. Based on recommendations by Planning Staff, Supervisor Dorsey proposed to amend the 
controls to exempt any Parcel Delivery Service use from the CU process if they were 10,000 sq. ft. or less. Staff 
made this recommendation so that Cannabis Delivery operations, which are classified as Parcel Delivery Services, 
would not be subjected to the CU authorization.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 11 
Also because of a conflict of interest, Supervisor Peskin needed to be recused from the hearing. During public 
comment, representatives from labor organizations spoke in favor of the extension, but asked that the 10,000 
sq. ft. threshold be reduced to 5,000 sq. ft. 
The committee then voted to amend the 10,000 sq. ft. threshold to 5,000 followed by the recommendation that 
item be forwarded to the Full Board. Staff believes that the 5,000 sq. ft. threshold will help most if not all Cannabis 
Delivery operators.  
230596 Planning Code - Conditional Use for Residential Projects in RM, RC, and RTO Districts. Sponsors: Peskin; 
Chan. Staff: Merlone. 
Lastly, the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would set minimum density requirements 
in RM, RC and RTO Districts. At the hearing, Supervisor Peskin, who said he was not ready to move forward on 
the ordinance, requested the item be continued. The committee then voted to continue the item to the call of 
the chair.  
Full Board 
230886 Hearing Appeal of Determination of Exemption from Environmental Review - Proposed 939 Lombard 
Street Project. Staff: Lewis. Items 15-18 
At the Board this week, the Supervisors considered the CEQA appeal for 939 Lombard St. The proposed project 
would demolish a parking structure at the front of the lot and construct a new 40-foot-tall, four-story, single-
family residence in its place. Immediately east of the project site is the Yick Wo Elementary School. 
The Planning Commission heard this item on June 29, 2023, as a DR, and voted to not take DR and approve the 
project. 
The CEQA appellant argued that the project would have impacts related to geology and soils, shadow, hazardous 
materials, aesthetics, air quality, noise, public safety, and biological resources. 
During public comment at this week’s hearing, there were 8 speakers for the appeal and one speaker against the 
appeal. The speakers for the appeal argued that the project would have an adverse effect on the adjacent 
elementary school. All issues raised during public comment were already addressed in the department’s appeal 
response. 
During the hearing, Supervisor Engardio pointed out that the appellant’s property, which is immediately west of 
the project site, is of similar size to the proposed building.  Supervisor Peskin stated that concurred with the 
department’s determination that the project qualified for a categorical exemption. 
In the end the Board voted 11-0 to deny the appeal, allowing the project to move forward.  
President Tanner: 
Just want to clarify that the Cannabis delivery services will not be impeded by the interim controls. Okay. 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Yes, sorry. That whole section of my report just disappeared but yeah, the threshold was intended to not catch 
the Cannabis delivery services  
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs:  
And we believe of the 10 letter in the hopper now, 9 are under 5,000 sq. ft. and the one that’s over 5,000 probably 
the parcel delivery service is less than 5,000. So, it may be able to get out that as well. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 14, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 11 
President Tanner: 
Okay. I’m just curious that the legislation, I know sometimes we have gotten a few instances where we’re asked 
to approve like improvements of parking lots that may or may not be related to the parcel delivery service but 
the use itself is a parking lot or that’s like what the project is. Do you know if this will address any of that? 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
This does not address that. Supervisor Chan’s ordinance that amends the definition of parcel delivery, which was 
continued I believe last week, and on an indefinite continuance, they are still working on some language, is 
attempting to address that.  
President Tanner: 
Okay. 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
And there are several different ways we’re trying to get at that but that’s to be determined. 
President Tanner: 
Okay, great. Thank you. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I just wanted to give, I forgot to give a shout out to Kate Conner and Carly Grob who were instrumental in 
developing and getting the housing legislation passed. So, I just wanted to recognize them as well as Anne 
Taupier from OEWD who did a tremendous job.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Commissioners, the Historic Preservation Commission did not meet yesterday but I just got some late breaking 
news that the mayor has nominated Amy Campbell, an architect with Gensler, to replace Kate Black on the 
Historic Preservation Commission.