9.
Director’s Announcements
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
Just on the Housing Element to follow up. You may have read in the paper that we did get
certified but we did have a project come in to attempt the builder’s revenue project. It was
the one you’ve heard in the past, on 17th Street, but we had a certified Housing Element so
builder’s remedy was not relevant. And we we’re only one of only a handful of jurisdictions
in the Bay Area that did get certified in time so thank you all for adapting and modifying
the timeline, and for your leadership on this. So, thank you.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Dan Sider on behalf of Aaron Starr: 
 
 
Land Use Committee  
• 221104 Planning Code - SoMa Nighttime Entertainment Uses; Leather and LGBTQ Cultural 
District. Sponsors: Dorsey; Mandelman. Staff: Starr. 
 
 
This week, the committee considered Supervisor Dorsey ordinance that would make 
Nighttime Entertainment a principally permitted use on properties fronting Folsom Street 
between 7th Street and Division Street and properties fronting 11th Street between 
Howard Street and Division Street. The Committee also heard this last week where they 
made amendments that were deemed substantive and then continued the item one week. 
 
 
This week, there was one person who spoke in favor of the item. After public comment the 
committee voted to forward the item to the Full Board with a positive Recommendation. 
 
 
Full Board 
 
 
At the full Board this week…  
 
• 221023 Planning Code - Grocery Stores in Polk Street Neighborhood Commercial District. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Flores. PASSED Second Read  
 
• 230001 General Plan Amendments - Housing Element 2022 Update. PASSED Second Read 
 
 
The Board passed also passed the Housing Element on second read, and the Mayor signed 
the ordinance into law that same day. Meaning we adopted our housing element by the 
January 31st deadline. Additionally, HCD sent us a letter yesterday certifying that our 
Housing Element was complaint. As a city I think we should be proud that we came 
together and met the moment. Hopefully, we can do the same for the implementation 
phase.  
 
• 221262 Mayoral Reappointment, Historic Preservation Commission - Lydia So. Adopted 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
Mr. Sider, could you give us a quick rundown of who the new committee appointees are. I 
think when the board changes, the board president change, you make new appointments. 
Is there any list out that you could share.    
 
 
Dan Sider: 
 
We will share that list to you this afternoon. The Land Use Committee is chaired by 
Supervisor Melgar and joined by President Peskin and Supervisor Preston. The rest we’ll 
get to you later today. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
Thank you. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 12 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Great, thank you. 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
And on Land Use, that the same group that was there before. So, it’s consistent. 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
 
That’s the same yeah. Thank you. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
It was stated that there was no report from the Board of Appeals but the Historic 
Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. And I blame myself for not starting the 
hearing sooner but we started the normal time and took up only the matter of the Castro 
Theatre landmarking specific character defining features. And the Police Commission has 
the same chamber on Wednesdays at 5:30, so we had to actually switch rooms. But 
ultimately, we got through the hearing, we took all the public comment and the Historic 
Preservation Commissioners adopted a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors to 
landmark the character defining features, including the sloped floor and fixed chairs, or 
fixed seats.