13. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
None. 
14. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs.  
 
Land Use Committee  
230505 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural Center Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: Pantoja.  
 
231137 Local Coastal Program Amendment - 2700-45th Avenue - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural 
Center Special Use District. Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: Pantoja. 
 
This week the LU Committee took up to items related to the Wawona Street and 45th Ave Cultural District, also 
known as the Irish Cultural Center. The first item was the ordinance establishing the SUD and the second was an 
amendment to the Local Coastal Program to incorporate the SUD. The two items were called together. The SUD 
was continued from the October 30th hearing dated because of issues related to Coastal Commission Review. 
 
This week Planning Staff gave a thorough presentation on the proposed SUD and the proposed new building. 
There were about a dozen or so commentors, about half spoke in favor and about half were opposed to the item. 
There were some comments of support from Chair Melgar about the proposal, and then the two items were 
forwarded to the full board with a positive recommendation as a committee report. 
 
230701 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Next the Committee considered the mayor’s ordinance titled Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, 
Restaurant, and Retail Uses. This item was first heard at Committee on October 30th and continued to this week. 
During the Committee hearing, Director Tang gave a summary of the amendments in front of Committee which 
generally included: 
 
Amending LCU exemptions to allow LCCUs in residential districts, but retain existing code for nonconforming 
LCUs (Sec. 186) for RH and RM zoning control tables: 
• Not permitting the conversion of a residential unit or UDU to an LCCU, unless the space is a garage or storage 
space in the Basement or First Story;  
• Clarifying Formula Retail is not permitted in LCCUs; and  
• Not permitting Walk-up Facilities in RH; RM-1, or RM-2; 
 
Amending the Priority Processing Program to prohibit all Formula Retail from the program (not just the Formula 
Retail uses with less than 20 establishments); and other clerical fixes. Supervisor Peskin thanked Director Tang 
for the collaborative efforts on this Ordinance. He also proposed some minor clean-up amendments. Supervisor 
Preston commended Director Tang on the outreach completed to date. He also requested that additional 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 30, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 10 
 
outreach be conducted within the Japantown neighborhood as the forthcoming duplicate file moves forward. 
There were two public comments with one requesting further clarification speaking in support. The Committee 
then too the amendments presented by Director Tang and Supervisor Peskin, and then forwarded the item to 
the Board with positive recommendation as a committee report. The file was also duplicated as amended, and 
then amended again to include applying the exemption from termination provisions for nonconforming uses 
within the North Beach SUD; For LCCUs: 
• Permitting Uses if it complies with a Neighborhood Commercial District or Special Use District within one-
half mile of the use, or if the use is more than one-half mile from the nearest NCD or SUD, an NC-1 District; 
• Amending the Use Size limitations for RH and RM districts to comply with the Use Size limitations of the 
nearest Neighborhood Commercial District or Special Use District.  
 
Within Polk Street NCD, Health Services would also be permitted on properties that do not have frontage on 
Hyde Street; Non-Retail Professional Services would be Conditionally permitted on properties that do not have 
any frontage on Polk Street, California Street, or Hyde Street;  Adding the five-year fee exemption for converting 
PDR to non-PDR uses; and Other changes that limit Prop H. This last amendment means that the duplicated 
ordinance cannot be amended heard until December 18th, when the three-year moratorium on changes 
implemented by prop H expire.  
 
230443 Planning and Subdivision Codes, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Engardio and 
Dorsey. Staff: Starr. 
 
The Committee also took up the mayor’s constraints reduction ordinance this Monday. The item was continued 
from the October 30 hearing. This week, Planning staff presented a series of amendments to the ordinance, most 
of which took out the carve-outs for the FHO SUD that Supervisor Melgar had added, including front and year 
yard setback, open space dimensions, exposure requirements, and minimum lot size and width. The result will 
be that these standards will be consistent thought the city. Also, we made an amendment to remove the 
allowance to demolish 2 non-occupied rent control units without CU authorization, so now no rent control units 
may be demolished without CU authorization. Based on feedback from HCD we also change the pre-application 
meeting requirement for projects exempt from 317 CU requirements to a meeting that must occur prior to or 
within 20 days of submitting the application. 
 
Finally, we amended the 311-process waiver outside of the PEG SUD, so that projects not adding a unit and doing 
a vertical addition, or projects that would increase a single-family home’s size to 3,000 sq. ft. or more are still 
subject to 311 neighborhood notification. This means any horizontal addition or any project and increase the 
number of units would not require 311 notification. As you would expect there was significant public comment, 
although commentors were only given one minute each so lasted for less than an hour this time. Once public 
comment was over the ordinance was amended to include staff’s modifications. Amendments from Supervisor 
Mandelman were also added, which included a requirement that for a project to be exempt from 317 CU 
requirement it must have been constructed after 1923. The file was then duplicated. The amended file was sent 
to the Full Board without a recommendation as a committee report and the duplicated file was continued to the 
call of the chair. Finally, some progress! 
 
231175 Directing the City Attorney and City Lobbyist to Request HCD Extend the Housing Element 
Implementation Action Plan Deadline and Revise and Correct the “Policy and Practice Review” Letter. Sponsors: 
Peskin; Chan. Staff: N/A.  
 
Lastly the committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s resolution Directing the City Attorney and City Lobbyist to 
Request HCD Extend the Housing Element Implementation Action Plan Deadline and Revise and Correct the 
“Policy and Practice Review” Letter. This resolution was amended and continued to December 5.  
 
Full Board  
Then at the Full Board this week: 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 30, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 10 
 
230924 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Non-Profit Arts Education Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. 
Flores. PASSED Second Read 
230443 Planning and Subdivision Codes, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Engardio and 
Dorsey. Staff: Starr. Continued One Week so that Supervisor Mandelman’s amendments could also be considered 
with the full Constraints Reduction Ordinance  
 
230701 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read