7. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
8. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
 
221105 Planning Code - HOME-SF. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
221021 Planning, Administrative Codes - HOME-SF. Sponsors: Dorsey; Peskin. Staff: V. 
Flores.  
 
 
This week the Committee took up the two HOME-SF ordinances, sponsored by President 
Peskin and Supervisor Dorsey. 
 
 
The first Ordinance, introduced by President Peskin, would amend the Planning Code to 
exclude Article 10 Districts from HOME-SF. 
 
 
The second Ordinance, introduced by Supervisor Dorsey, would amend the Planning Code 
to allow projects under HOME-SF to subject new dwelling units to rent control rather than 
increasing the affordability requirement.  
 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission and Planning Commission heard these items on 
February 15 and February 16th respectively. 
 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission adopted a recommendation of approval for both 
Ordinances. The Planning Commission recommended approval for the first Ordinance, and 
approval with modification for the second Ordinance. Those modifications included:  
 
1. Amend the legislation to allow projects with fewer than 10 units to participate in 
HOME-SF by subjecting the entire building to rent control. 
2. Require leases for these projects to disclose that the unit is subject to rent control. 
3. Eliminate the shadow/wind/historic resources criterion from the eligibility 
requirements. And   
4. Revise the eligibility requirement to allow the demolition of one unit. 
 
 
The Supervisor incorporated the first two recommendations in addition to four other 
amendments, which are: 
 
1. Eliminate the exemption from parking requirements since there are no longer parking 
minimums. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 27, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 10 
 
2. Make the minimum Below Market Rate unit size for studios consistent between the 
HOME-SF and Inclusionary Housing program. 
3. Revise the common open space reduction to simply 10%. 
4. Allow reduced requirements for private open space. 
 
 
This week there were no public comments. President Peskin noted there were no 
amendments to Item 1, but that since the two items have traveled together thus far, that 
he would also continue both items so that they could be heard together next week. Both 
items were then continued to May 1.  
 
 
230058 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Rezone Designated RM-2 Parcel. Sponsor: Stefani. 
Staff: Merlone. 
 
 
The Committee also considered the proposed ordinance that would rezone the Hotel 
Drisco to permit up to 47 Tourist Hotel Rooms. This would allow the Hotel Drisco to 
continue its operations as a hotel and was the result of a settlement between the City and 
the owners of the hotel. Commissioners, you heard this item on your consent calendar on 
March 23rd and voted to recommend approval. At the Committee, there was no discussion 
and no public comment before the item was sent to the full board with a positive 
recommendation.   
 
 
230280 General Plan - Environmental Justice Framework and General Plan Introduction. 
Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Ngo. 
 
 
Next the Committee heard an ordinance amending the General Plan by adopting the San 
Francisco Environmental Justice Framework and amending the Introduction to the General 
Plan 
 
 
This item was initiated by the Planning Commission on January 26, 2023, and on Approved 
on March 2 of this year.  
 
 
During public comment, all commentors were in support of the item. The item received 
support from PODER (People Organizing to Demand Environmental and Economic Justice), 
Chinatown Community Development Center, and Fillmore Media Systems & Services. The 
callers mentioned the importance of establishing citywide policy for environmental justice; 
targeting resources and action in Environmental Justice Communities; and the 
community-led process for outreach, engagement, and policy development. 
 
 
During the hearing, Committee members asked questions about how the GP is 
implemented; what tangible outcomes will come from update, and questions about how 
the boundaries of the Environmental Justice Communities Map are decided on. The 
Committee members then voted unanimously to recommend the item to the Full Board.  
 
 
230192 Planning Code - Landmark Designation Amendment - 429-431 Castro Street (the 
Castro Theatre). Sponsor: Mandelman. Staff: Westhoff. 
 
Continued to provide more time for discussion.  
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 27, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 10 
 
 
Full Board 
 
 
220340 Planning Code - Neighborhood Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts. 
Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read  
 
 
220971 Planning Code - Gates, Railings, and Grillwork Exceptions for Cannabis Retail Uses 
and Existing Non-Residential Uses. Sponsor: Safai. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Thank you. Mr. Starr, was the Castro Theatre continued to a specific date? 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Sorry, I didn’t -- 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Sorry. Was the Castro Theatre continued to a specific date? 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
I will check on that for you. 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Two weeks? Are we still on target? 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
We are. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
We’re still on target but it’s cutting it very close. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
 
Okay. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Because the Board of Supervisors still needs to act. 
 
 
 
President Tanner: 
Exactly, okay. Keep us abreast of that. 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
 
Indeed.