9. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None. 
 
10. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
• 220340 Planning Code - Neighborhood Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts. 
Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Starr.  
 
 
This week, the Land Use Committee heard the long-awaited Article 8 Reorg that includes 
many other substantiative changes, which is sponsored by Supervisor Dorsey. The 
Planning Commission heard this item on November 17 and voted to recommend approval 
with modifications. Those modifications included: 
1. Exempt Childcare Facilities and Residential Care Facilities from FAR limits in those 
zoning districts.  
2. Remove the language referencing adequate lighting and the Planning Department’s 
lighting guidelines from the definition of Walk-Up Facility.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 16, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 5 of 10 
3.
Remove the proposed changes that relax Nighttime Entertainment controls in various
zoning districts. Instead, amend the ordinance so that Nighttime Entertainment is
principally permitted for properties fronting Folsom Street between 7th Street and
Division Street and properties fronting 11th Street between Howard Street and
Division Street.
4.
Encourage the Entertainment Commission to evaluate how best to mitigate impacts in
RED and RED-MX districts from noise and other quality of life impacts related to
Nighttime Entertainment uses that are located within 200’ of those districts.
The Supervisor did include all the Panning Commissions recommended modifications. In 
addition they also removed the liberalization of controls on General Entertainment and 
replaced those with the same more target approach used for Nighttime Entertainment. 
Unfortunately, these amendments were not introduced as a substitute ordinance, so the 
amendments had to be made during the Land Use hearing. This required the ordinance to 
be continued as at least one amendment was deemed substantive.  
During the hearing, Supervisor Peskin had some questions and concerns about a few of the 
changes proposed regarding group housing in SALI, and the 1000’ buffer around Adult 
Businesses. Staff will be looking into these changes prior to the next hearing.  
The Committee’s final actions were to accept the proposed amendments and continue the 
item to February 27. 
Full Board 
•
221104 Planning Code - SoMa Nighttime Entertainment Uses; Leather and LGBTQ Cultural
District. Sponsors: Dorsey; Mandelman. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read
•
221293 Hearing - Appeal of Adjustment, Reduction, or Waiver of Development Project
Requirements - Community Infrastructure Fee - Annunciation Cathedral - Religious
Worship Building Project - 245-275 Valencia Street. Staff: Perry.
This week, the Board considered the appeal on the imposition of Market and Octavia
Community Improvements Fee for the project at 245 Valencia Street, also knowns as the
United Greek Orthodox Church. The Planning Commission considered and approved this
project on September 15, 2011, as a conditional use authorization.
The fees were imposed for the construction of a new cathedral, and the impact fees were
included in the motion as a condition of approval; however, the City failed to collect the
required fee at time of permit issuance in 2013. Construction of the project took ~10 years.
The City notified the owner in late 2021 that the unpaid fees must be paid before
Certificates of Occupancy could be issued for the project.
The church appealed the impact fee, arguing that the Cathedral was a replacement
building for one that had been demolished several years prior and replaced with a parking
lot, and that the new building would not have any new impacts since the church
community has used the site since the 1930s. Further, they claimed the project would not
increase the number of users on site.

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 16, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 6 of 10 
However, the Planning Code views the project not as a replacement, but as a new project 
constructed on a parking lot. The fee is triggered when there is new construction or an 
addition of at least 800 gsf of non-residential use, and the Planning Code does not allow 
for any Department-level discretion. 
There were only 2 speakers at hearing; the appellant’s representative and 1 public 
commenter, who attends this church and was in support of waiving the fee. 
Supes. Ronen and Melgar asked questions of staff regarding why the Planning Code does 
not view this as a replacement building, and why the fee applies even if the church would 
not be increasing users. 
Supe. Ronen then made motion to deny the appeal, noting that nothing in Planning Code 
would support overturning assessment of the fee. That motion passed unanimously.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I have no report from the Board of Appeals but the Historic Preservation Commission did 
meet yesterday and they took up the Department’s Budget and Work program and 
adopted a recommendation for approval. They also considered several Legacy Business 
Registry applications that included the Blue Light on Union Street, the Hing Lung Company 
on Stockton Street, Mr. Bing’s on Columbus Avenue, Design Media on 21st Street, 
Playmates Cooperative Preschool on 42nd Avenue, Love On Haight-on-Haight Street, 
Dragon Seed Bridal and Photography on Clay Street and adopted recommendations for 
approval for all of these Legacy Business Registry applications. They also heard the 
Planning Code amendment for Home SF that you will hear today. And then finally, 
adopted the Modernistic Style (1925 – 1965) Citywide Historic Context Statement.