12.
Director’s Announcements
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
Good afternoon. Welcome back Commissioner Ruiz. Today is also, you know, we’re
recognizing our, as Jonas said, our future planners. So, our interns are here today, if you all
want to stand up that would be great. Don’t be shy. Steve Vettel, stay seated. So, this year
we have 40 Planning interns for this summer. All are being paid and generously, thanks to
San Francisco’s Minimum Wage Ordinance. 16 college interns, 24 high school interns. For
the college internship, we have received over 900 applications and letters of interest, so it’s
a great crowd who’s here. They are working on all facets of what we do from housing
element implementation to making recommendation to make the Mills Act more
equitable, Historic Resource Context Statements, Parklets, Transportation Element, etc. So,
a ton of great work they are doing. And our Young Planners Program, which is the high
school program, we’ve grown over the years. Again, now 24 interns. I want to thank
Opportunities For All which helps fund the high school program and more focuses on San
Francisco public schools. So, it’s been a great partnership with Opportunities For All and
our high school. I want to thank Commissioner Chan who was here and led the effort and
pushed up to advance that program and make it more robust. I know when I was in high
school, I had no idea what a Planner did, but I love cities and living in cities, and so
hopefully this is giving those in high school opportunities to know what we do and how
they can be the future Claudia Flores’s that impact communities and work with
communities on their dreams and hopes for the city, So, thank you. I also wanted to
recognize Tina Tam who runs this program on top of her job also as Deputy Zoning
Administrator and does a wonderful job in making this a successful program. So, thank you
Tina.
President Tanner:
Wow, it’s really great to have you all here. Are they going to stay here for the entire
hearing or just a little bit? 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director:
You don’t have to.
President Tanner:
I will tell you this one story of my very first job out of grad school, I had a, was in a
program, a government program, and I had to go to every City Council meeting for a year.

San Francisco Planning Commission