12. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good morning, Commissioners. Just a quick update which I mentioned last week during Director’s Comments, 
our response on the 30-day items to HCD, this is related to the Policy and Practices review, are due the day after 
the Thanksgiving break, so a week from Monday. We will be sending them a response next week and, on the 
items that have a 30-day timeline. As I’ve mentioned, most of those relate to the Constraints Ordinance that is at 
the Board of Supervisors and will be at Committee that Monday as well. So, we’ll send you a copy of that. We also 
then have a follow up with the hearing on December 7th where we’re talking about the entire suite of changes 
to State law that happened this last legislative session as well as a broader look at the Policy and Practice review 
and our response. 
 
President Tanner: 
I did get to speak with Director Hillis and then also with the Mayor’s Office about the just the directives from HCD. 
I felt very confident that they are on top of handling it and responding on behalf of the City with a unified voice, 
so I felt very comfortable waiting until later on to have our discussion but do know that it is being, the direction 
or the Policy and Practice is being responded to. And I thought that continuing to have a collegial relationship 
with HCD and a collaborative one so I felt very confident with that and thank you, Director Hillis and to Ms. 
Gluckstein of the Mayor’s Office as well.  
13. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good morning commissioners, Aaron Starr Department staff. 
 
Land Use Committee  
230924 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Non-Profit Arts Education Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin 
This week the land use committee considered Non-Profit Arts Education Special Use District, which was 
introduced by Supervisor Peskin 
 
The proposed Ordinance would create the Non-Profit Arts Education Special Use District at 800 Chestnut, the 
former site of the San Francisco Arts Institute. The SUD would allow a non-profit arts educational institutional 
use, which for the purposes of the SUD would be defined as a public or private institutional use operating as a 
post-secondary educational institution and is not required to be certified by the Western Association of Schools 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 16, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 8 
 
and Colleges. All other provisions of the RH-3 District shall apply, except that a non-profit arts education 
institutional use in the SUD shall not be obligated to comply with the Institutional Master Plan requirements. 
 
The Historic Preservation Commission and Planning Commission both heard this item last week, and both 
recommended approval. 
 
At the hearing, there were no public comments or Committee discussion. The item was moved with positive 
recommendation as a committee report. 
 
Full Board 
230924 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Non-Profit Arts Education Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin 
Then at the Full Board, the Board passed the Non-Profit Arts Education Special Use District on first read.  
 Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good morning, President Tanner, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board of Appeals 
did meet last night but they did not take up any item that is of interest to the Commission. Thank you. 
 Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission met yesterday, and they adopted recommendations for approval for 
several legacy business registry applications. The first being Elixir, the second oldest watering hole in this town 
of holes, and Il Pollaio, a long-standing restaurant on Columbus Avenue, and Heroes Club on Clement Street, as 
well as Friends of Scrap on Toland Street which is a great little establishment. And as previously stated, they also 
continued their decision on remote public comment to gain more input.