20. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
21. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good Afternoon Commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of legislative affairs. 
Last week, both you and the Board were off, so there’s no catch up to do. 
220709 Planning Code - Nighttime Entertainment Castro Street Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor:
Mandelman. Staff: Merlone.
This week, the Land Use Committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would permit nighttime 
entertainment uses on the second floor with conditional use authorization. This ordinance was part of the
package of considerations related to the Castro Theater project. 
This item was continued from the October 2 land use hearing because amendments to allow exemptions of the 
use size limits for historic buildings in the Castro NCD were not ready. This week those amendments, which were 
part of the Planning Commissions recommended modifications were introduced by Supervisor Mandelman and 
accepted by the Committee. During public comment there were a few public speakers, about half in favor and
half against. The committee then continued the item for one week, as required because the amendments were 
substantive. We expect the time to pass out of committee next week. 
230446 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Engardio and Dorsey. Staff: Starr
Then the Committee considered the Mayor’s Constraints reduction ordinance. This item was also continued from 
October 2. At the beginning of the hearing, Supervisor Melgar indicated her intent to continue the item to allow 
her and the mayor’s office to work on amendments to the ordinance. Superior Mandelman also indicated that
he had amendments related to the Corona Heights SUD and the Central Neighborhoods Large Home SUD that
he would be introducing at the next hearing. The item did have public comment, although this week it was
significantly shorter than last, but with no less passion from the speakers. 
Supervisors Peskin and Preston both expressed their dissatisfaction with the way the ordinance had been
handled by the mayor’s office, and Preston, in particular, expressed his concern about the potential loss of rent
controlled housing. I would just add that the provision that allowed the demolition of rent-controlled housing
without conditional use authorization was limited to two units, prohibited displacement, and requires the units 
to be replaced. But that nuance didn’t make it into the broader conversation. 
The Committee did eventually vote to continue the item to October 30. I don’t believe it will pass out of
committee at that point and based on my understanding of Supervisor Mandelman’s proposed amendments,
the ordinance will likely have to come back to the commission for your further consideration. 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I have a question, just clarification. So, the negotiations between Supervisor Melgar and the Mayor, is that also
returning? Or on top of the amendments that Supervisor [inaudible] 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 19, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 13 of 15 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
No, I think it, so the mayor’s was very broad. And I think what’s going to happen is some of that broadness will 
be narrowed so that doesn’t need to come back to you for consideration. Because it’s this and now it’s going to 
be that. But Mandelman’s touches on topics that you have no connection to what you heard prior.  
Commissioner Imperial: 
Okay. Thank you. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission met yesterday. They continued the Clay Theatre interior and exterior 
alterations’ Certificate of Appropriateness indefinitely. So, I’m not sure what’s going to happen with that but they 
adopted recommendations for approval for Legacy Business Registry applications for the property at 599 Castro 
Street, The Thai House, and then also property at 916 Kearny Street for Earwax Productions. They also adopted a 
Citywide Historic Context Statement on Architecture, Planning and Preservation Professionals, a Collection of 
Biographies and heard an informational presentation on Housing Projects and State Density Bonus Law. And, as 
previously noted, they were forced to continue the Non-Profit Arts Education Special Use District Planning Code 
and Zoning Map amendments because they lost a quorum and so they could not actually have a hearing due to 
conflicts but we’re hoping that Amy Campbell who just got through approvals will be able to sit on the Historic 
Preservation Commission on November 1st. And so, they can take up that matter then. Hans Baldauf, who has 
gone through the Full Board is abroad and will be joining the Historic Preservation Commission after the 
Thanksgiving holiday. So, maybe in December, the Historic Preservation Commission will be full with seven 
members again.