13. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
None. 
14. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs.  
 
Land Use Committee  
230505 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural Center Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: Pantoja.  
 
231137 Local Coastal Program Amendment - 2700-45th Avenue - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural 
Center Special Use District. Sponsor: Engardio. Staff: Pantoja. 
 
This week the LU Committee took up to items related to the Wawona Street and 45th Ave Cultural District, also 
known as the Irish Cultural Center. The first item was the ordinance establishing the SUD and the second was an 
amendment to the Local Coastal Program to incorporate the SUD. The two items were called together. The SUD 
was continued from the October 30th hearing dated because of issues related to Coastal Commission Review. 
 
This week Planning Staff gave a thorough presentation on the proposed SUD and the proposed new building. 
There were about a dozen or so commentors, about half spoke in favor and about half were opposed to the item. 
There were some comments of support from Chair Melgar about the proposal, and then the two items were 
forwarded to the full board with a positive recommendation as a committee report. 
 
230701 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Next the Committee considered the mayor’s ordinance titled Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, 
Restaurant, and Retail Uses. This item was first heard at Committee on October 30th and continued to this week. 
During the Committee hearing, Director Tang gave a summary of the amendments in front of Committee which 
generally included: 
 
Amending LCU exemptions to allow LCCUs in residential districts, but retain existing code for nonconforming 
LCUs (Sec. 186) for RH and RM zoning control tables: 
• Not permitting the conversion of a residential unit or UDU to an LCCU, unless the space is a garage or storage 
space in the Basement or First Story;  
• Clarifying Formula Retail is not permitted in LCCUs; and  
• Not permitting Walk-up Facilities in RH; RM-1, or RM-2; 
 
Amending the Priority Processing Program to prohibit all Formula Retail from the program (not just the Formula 
Retail uses with less than 20 establishments); and other clerical fixes. Supervisor Peskin thanked Director Tang 
for the collaborative efforts on this Ordinance. He also proposed some minor clean-up amendments. Supervisor 
Preston commended Director Tang on the outreach completed to date. He also requested that additional 

San Francisco Planning Commission