6.
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just to follow up. I mean, we'll certainly yeah, we recognize too, it's an impacted calendar today, but I think it is
a combination of kind of canceled meetings and the deadlines we have for certain legislation to be heard. And I 
think we're going to see more legislation, especially as we're implementing, I mean, the overarching policy is the 
Housing Element, which you know, was fairly specific on what we wanted to do as far as constraints removal and 
rezoning and allowing for more housing. So we'll try to definitely tie things back to the Housing Element where
they relate to the Housing Element. And certainly I think the HCD’s Policies and Practices review keyed off the
Housing Element. I mean, a lot of the recommendations they made were things we called out already in the
Housing Element as things we were going to do. They might have had a more aggressive timeline on them. Some 
we've already implemented, which is good news, but some are new and we'll have to implement. So we will
have a hearing on this. I think it may be best to combine it with the hearing we're planning on State legislation. 
So, as you know, there was there was a host of State bills that passed that relate to housing. So, I think our plan 
is to hopefully and we'll work with President Tanner on this couple that hearing on a briefing on the HCD report
with State legislative, the kind of the summary of State legislation. So, look for that as an upcoming item in the
calendar.
Related to that work, you'll see today in one of your items, 401 South Van Ness, we were here before when we
talked about the Housing Element, about changes we were making to our work under CEQA. And, you know,
one goal was to kind of reduce time and process that it takes us to prepare evaluations, but still give you the
information and perhaps even give it to you, we're hoping in a more, concise fashion for you and the public. And 
so, you'll see in today's calendar under 401, if you haven't already, South Van Ness, that it was our first General 
Plan evaluation. And so we were teeing off the Housing Element EIR and reformatted kind of how we do that
evaluation. You're used to seeing those under CPEs where we're keying off kind of the Eastern Neighborhoods
Plan or another plan that we've done. But again, I think it gets to the core issues that are important to you in a
clear and concise manner. But we want to hear feedback from you as you as you look at those reports and make 
your decisions. So let us know as time goes on. And that’s all I have. Thank you.
President Tanner: 
Thank you. Actually, I wonder in the intervening time I thought of a question. Jonas, we’ve talked a little bit about 
the hearing procedures staying the same. I just wanted to just say that publicly because I had a member of the

San Francisco Planning Commission