8. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
9. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr manager of Legislative Affairs  
 
Land Use 
 
230701 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores. Item 1 
 
231221 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey, Melgar and Stefan. Staff: V. Flores. Item 2 
 
This week the land use committee considered the mayor’s ordinance “Citywide Expansion of Allowable 
Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses.” Both the original file and the duplicated file were continued from last 
week’s Committee hearing. This week, there were no public comments or Supervisor discussion. The original file 
was forwarded with positive recommendation to the Board as a Committee Report. 
 
For the duplicated file, Director Tang provided a high-level overview of the forthcoming amendments to the 
duplicate file. These include changes to the temporary fee exemption for converting PDR uses to non-PDR; LCCU 
allowances, Use Size limitations, Formula Retail restrictions; and changes to Polk Street NCD in response to 
community feedback. The item was then continued to the Call of the Chair. 
 
231091 Initiating Landmark Designation - Gregangelo & Velocity Art & Entertainment - 225 San Leandro Way. 
Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: LaValley 
 
Next the Committee considered the initiation of Landmark Designation for the Gregangelo & Velocity Art & 
Entertainment building located 225 San Leandro Way. This resolution was sponsored by Supervisor Melgar and 
cosponsored by Supervisor Preston. The proposed Landmark Designation will still need to go before the HPC for 
their review and recommendation, but this action starts that process. There were a lot of speakers for this one. All 
we in support of the designation and most were artists who had found a community at the site. After public 
comment, the item was forwarded to the Board with a positive recommendation.  

San Francisco Planning Commission