11. 
Review of Past Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals and Historic 
Preservation Commission 
 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee 
230690 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Parkside Branch Library. Sponsor: 
Engardio. Staff: La Valley.  
First on the land use agenda was the landmark designation for Parkside Branch Library 
located at 1200 Taraval Street. This landmark designation was initiated by Supervisor Mar 
last December, and once Supervisor Edgardio took office he assumed sponsorship. The 
HPC heard this item on 5/17/23 and unanimously recommended approval. 
 
Parkside Branch Library was constructed in 1951 as the prototype for the focused building 
campaign of modern branch libraries, consisting of eight buildings constructed between 
1951 and 1966. Parkside Branch Library is historically significant for its association with the 
social and cultural shifts in post-war American library programing and design. It is also 
architecturally significant as it embodies the principles of mid-twentieth century American 
public library design; displays a signature and innovative style developed by Appleton & 
Wolfard and is representative of the work of Appleton & Wolfard, an architectural firm of 
merit. 
 
The Committee voted unanimously to forward the item to the full board with a positive 
recommendation and Supervisor Peskin signed on as cosponsor to the item. 
230732 Planning and Building Codes - Commercial to Residential Adaptive Reuse and 
Downtown Economic Revitalization. Sponsors: Mayor; Peskin. Staff: Langlois.  
Next on the agenda was the amended version of the Commercial to Residential Adaptive 
Reuses for Downtown Revitalization. This commission heard the item on 7/13 and 
recommended unanimous approval.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 20, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
 
At the land use committee this week, there was no discussion or public comment on the 
item; however, Supervisor Peskin offered two additional amendments that would remove 
the administrative review of certain scopes of work in both Article 10 and Article 11 
districts.  
 
The land use committee approved the two amendments and then recommended the item 
to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
230745 Building, Planning Codes - Existing Awning Amnesty Program. Sponsors: Mayor; 
Peskin and Stefani. Staff: Merlone.  
Next the committee considered the duplicated file of the Awning and Sign amnesty 
program ordinance. The Commission heard this item at their June 1st hearing and voted to 
approve the ordinance with a host of recommended modifications.  
 
The land use Committee first heard this item on June 12, when they duplicated the file so 
the original ordinance could move though the legislative process while the Planning 
Commissions recommended modifications were drafted to form. At the hearing this week, 
the committee incorporated many of the Planning Commissions recommended 
modifications including those to limit the program to Business signs, removal of the 5-year 
lookback requirement, and require signs that participate in the amnesty program to still 
comply with illumination provisions. This week there was little discussion from the 
committee members and no public comment. The Committee voted to move the 
duplicated file forward to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
230026 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family Housing 
Opportunity Special Use District. Sponsors: Melgar. Staff: Merlone. 
Lastly, the Committee considered Supervisor Melgar’s Family Housing Opportunity SUD. 
the proposed Ordinance returned to Committee after amendments were made last week, 
many in response to community feedback. Supervisor Melgar’s additional amendments 
include: 
 
1. Adding a pre-application neighborhood notice, which the Planning Commission 
currently requires for all projects subject to Neighborhood notice. 
2. Consolidating Rent Control program sections within the Administrative Code; and  
3. Additional clerical amendments 
 
Supervisor Mandelman’s office proposed an amendment that would ensure project in the 
Central Neighborhoods Large Residence and Corona Heights SUDs would still be subject to 
the CU controls imposed in that SUD should they trigger it.  
 
Supervisor Peskin proposed several additional amendments with the most noteworthy 
being: 
 
1. Require a CU if demo’ing 2 rent-controlled units;  
2. Ensuring Group Housing SUD controls still apply;  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 20, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 12 
 
3. And amendments to ensure that only one unit would be permitted in the rear yard 
should the project be allowed to have more than four units based on lot area. 
 
Supervisor Preston shared that the Haight Ashbury neighborhood association submitted a 
letter of concern. He also raised questions about the neighborhood notice; how neighbor’s 
concerns are resolved; and if the demo permits are still appealable. 
 
There were approximately 15 public commentors with the majority opposing the 
ordinance for not incorporating affordability requirements, concerns regarding the loss of 
rent-controlled units, and wanting additional time to review and refine the legislation. 
There were also commentors who supported the recent amendments, particularly the 
addition of the required notice. 
 
The ordinance was then amended to include Melgar’s and Mandelman’s amendments and 
continued to next week. The other amendments proposed by Peskin had not been drafted 
to form yet.  
 
Full Board 
230410 Planning Code - Polk Street and Haight Street Neighborhood Commercial Districts. 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
221164 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Van Ness & Market Residential Special Use District - 
Height Increase for 98 Franklin Street. Sponsor: Preston. Staff: Alexander. Passed First Read 
230502 General Plan - Port of San Francisco Waterfront Plan Update. Sponsor: Planning 
Commission. Staff: Snyder. Passed First Read 
230501 Zoning Map - Port of San Francisco Waterfront Plan Update; Waterfront Zoning 
Correction. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Snyder. Passed First Read  
230503 Planning Code - Port of San Francisco Waterfront Plan Update. Sponsor: Planning 
Code. Staff: Snyder. Passed First Read 
230690 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Parkside Branch Library. Sponsor: 
Engardio. Staff: La Valley. Passed First Read 
230732 Planning and Building Codes - Commercial to Residential Adaptive Reuse and 
Downtown Economic Revitalization. Sponsors: Mayor; Peskin. Staff: Langlois. Passed First 
Read 
230745 Building, Planning Codes - Existing Awning Amnesty Program. Sponsors: Mayor; 
Peskin and Stefani. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
In addition…. 
230822 Adoption of Findings Related to Disapproval of Conditional Use Authorization - 
301 Toland Street. Sponsor: N/A. Staff: Samonsky. Adopted  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, July 20, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 12 
 
230823 Adoption of Findings Related to Conditional Use Authorization - 1160 Mission 
Street. Sponsor: N/A. Staff: Foster. Adopted  
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and adopted recommendations 
for approval for 7 Legacy Business Registry applications - The Dubliner, which has been 
around for 36 years; Underglass Custom Framing, which has been around for 38 years; 
Delano Nursery, which has been around for 101 years; Frascati Restaurant, which has been 
around for 37 years; Adventure Cat Sailing Charters for 32 years, Elie and Eva Company, 
which has served San Francisco for 53 years. It’s the only music store in Chinatown, or 
instrument store I should say; and then Enclosures International Corporation, which has 
been around for 45 years. And then finally, they heard the Cultural Districts informational 
presentation that is on your agenda today.  
 
10. 
Director’s Announcements 
 
 
None.