12. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Thank you. Jonas, I don't have any Director's Announcements, but I would like to use this time to also echo the 
just appreciation, tremendous appreciation for you, Commissioner Diamond. First and foremost, I just really 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, August 1, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 10 
 
want to appreciate and thank you for how respectful you've been of staff. Staff has a lot on their plates, and I 
can tell you from the, like, most sincere place that staff really appreciates, the kindness and the effort with which 
you reach out to them individually, such so that they're not put on the spot so that they can prepare thoughtful 
responses to the very valid and thoughtful questions that you've brought up. So, I really wanted to thank you 
for that. We also always know, as a result of that that you actually read our packets because sometimes it feels 
like we spend a lot of time writing things that no one ever reads, so we always know that with you, I know that 
you have gotten all the way through them and you know everything that's in there. So, I think that's really 
meaningful also to staff.  
And last lastly, on sort of a personal note, it's been really meaningful to me how much it's clear that you really 
care about good government. We may disagree on policy matters from time to time, but you really do always 
bring us back and hold us accountable for being, sort of good, good governance and really caring about our 
customers and the citizens of San Francisco's experience working with us. And so that's something that's very 
near and dear to my heart. And so I appreciate how much you bring it back to that and remind us of how, how 
important that is. So for all of that, we will miss you, your shoes are too, too big to be filled, and you will be 
missed, but also an exciting chapter, for you to enjoy your grandbabies. 
President Diamond: 
Thank you for those wonderful comments. I will say, I know that every Commissioner up here reads the staff 
reports. I'm just the biggest. I'm just the biggest nudge.  
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
We know you read our staff reports, so we appreciate that. And then and then lastly, Sean, welcome. We're 
really excited to have you as well, Commissioner McGarry, and clearly, you've got big shoes to fill here. So we're 
really excited to work with you in this next phase. When one when one door closes, another opens. So welcome. 
And then just to follow up on Commissioner Imperial's request, I have not been in the loop on the exact schedule, 
but I will for sure relay it back to the housing choice team and relay your request for a September hearing. Sure.  
13. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. Thank you, Commissioner 
Diamond, for your work. We've truly appreciated your voice up there. You will be missed. Welcome 
Commissioner McGarry. I hope you find it to be some good crack on the Planning Commission. I doubt it, but, 
anyway, so this week -   
 
Land Use Committee 
240725 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Rainbow Flag at Harvey Milk Plaza. Sponsors: Mandelman; 
Engardio, Dorsey, Peskin, Chan and Melgar. Staff: Corrette.  
 
This week the Land Use Committee considered the landmark designation of the Rainbow Flag at Harvey 
Milk Plaza by Gilbert Baker. The HPC heard this item on May 15, and recommended approval to the Board 
of Supervisors 
 
During the land use hearing, there were about a half dozen public commentators all in support of the 
designation.  
 
Supervisor Mandelman made the entire presentation and went over a revision that specifies that the flag 
should fly at full staff for 24 hours a day. The amendment was then approved by the committee. 
 
Supervisor Preston asked to be added as a co-sponsor. After which the ordinances was recommended 
unanimously.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, August 1, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 10 
 
Full Board 
240712 Mayoral Appointment, Planning Commission - Amy Campbell. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Ionin. 
Adopted 
 
240713 Mayoral Appointment, Planning Commission - Sean McGarry. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Ionin. Adopted  
 
240725 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Rainbow Flag at Harvey Milk Plaza. Sponsors: Mandelman; 
Engardio, Dorsey, Peskin, Chan and Melgar. Staff: Corrette. Passed First Read