7. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None. 
8. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
 
Audrey Merlone: 
At the Land Use and Transportation Committee this week there were two landmark designations. The first was 
the Grand Theater at 2665 Mission Street. This landmarking was introduced by Supervisor Ronen, and 
unanimously approved by the Historic Preservation Commission on November 15th of last year. The building 
was designed by G. Albert Lansburgh and S. Charles Lee in 1940 and is significant for association with city’s 
network of neighborhood theaters, and as an excellent example of the Streamline Moedern style. 
 
The Committee voted unanimously to forward the landmarking on to the Full Board with a positive 
recommendation. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 15, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 7 
 
The second landmarking at Committee this week was for the Sacred Heart Parish Complex. This was initiated by 
the HPC and unanimously recommended by them on September 9th of last year. This item was continued to the 
February 26th hearing because Supervisor Peskin stated he would like to draft unspecified amendments to the 
ordinance. 
 
It was also a busy week at Land Use for proposed ordinances that would amend the Planning Code. The Family 
Housing Opportunity SUD amendment introduced by Supervisor Engardio was first. As you may remember, this 
item was continued last week because the amendments made at that hearing were substantive. During the 
hearing, Supervisor Peskin raised concerns about the amendment that would reduce the ownership requirement 
to one year if the property includes two or more units. He requested that the existing ownership requirements 
be retained. Those existing ownership requirements are 5 years for properties with two or more dwellings and 
one year for those with one or fewer dwellings. Staff tried to address Supervisor Peskin’s concerns by noting that 
this amendment is meant to mirror the same provision that passed in the Housing Constraints Reduction 
ordinance.  
 
There were three public comments, most of which were to state confusion surrounding the different pieces of 
competing legislation and the lack of outreach. After taking public comment, the item was continued to the 
February 26th hearing. 
 
Next up was Supervisor Peskin’s State-Mandated ADU Controls. This Ordinance is the duplicated version of the 
original file. That duplication happened at last week’s hearing, and then the duplicate was continued to this 
week’s hearing to give the city attorney time to draft Supervisor Peskin’s amendments. 
 
• 
This duplicated file would make changes to the State ADU program in order to incentivize the Local ADU 
Program. The three specific amendments include: 
1. Retaining the two-ADU limit on Hybrid ADUs (which I will note goes directly against HCD’s October 2023 
letter); 
2. Amending the State ADU program to also apply the objective architectural review standards to listed and 
previously determined eligible California Register historic resources; and  
3. Amending the review timeline for the Local ADU Program to 60 days from 120 days. 
 
• 
These amendments were adopted unanimously, and the item was continued to the call of the chair. 
 
Next we had the Mayor and Supervisor Melgar’s ordinance that would make residential density in our NCD’s, RTO 
and RC’s outside of Priority Equity Geographies form-based. 
 
This item was back at the Land Use Committee after a 2-week continuance. At the hearing both Supervisor Peskin 
and Supervisor Preston stated they had requested amendments that were still being drafted by the City Attorney.  
Supervisor Peskin said that he was concerned about the severity of heights that projects could potentially 
achieve under form-based density when coupled with state density bonus programs. As such, his proposed 
amendments would not allow the parcels subject to this ordinance that use form-based density to also utilize a 
state density bonus. 
 
Supervisor Preston is concerned that form-based density without additional affordability requirements is a 
giveaway to developers. As such, he has requested that the City Attorney draft amendments to sunset form-
based zoning in the areas proposed under the ordinance after a period of 3 years, with a possibility that form-
based zoning can be renewed by the Board if inclusionary rates are also raised to an appropriate percentage. 
After these two concepts were introduced, Chair Melgar suggested that the item be continued until March 4th, 
to give both the City Attorney time to draft amendments, and the supervisors to talk to constituents about said 
amendments. That continuance to March 4th passed unanimously. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 15, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 7 
 
And lastly at Land Use Committee this week we had Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would reinstate numeric 
density controls in the downtown and eastern waterfront’s C-2 zoning districts. You heard this item on January 
28th and voted to make two modifications.  
 
• 
The first was to limit the ordinance to demo/new construction projects in the Jackson Square and Northeast 
Waterfront Historic Districts, and the second was to exempt projects utilizing the Office to Residential 
Adaptive Reuse program in these districts from numeric density controls. 
 
Supervisor Peskin made amendments that were in line with the spirit of the Commission’s recommendations. 
He also made one additional amendment, and that was to extend numeric density controls to a set of parcels 
that are in an area that is considered “eligible” to be added to the Jackson Square Historic District. Chair Melgar 
stated that although she understands that this ordinance is not running afoul of our obligations under the 
Housing Element, she is philosophically opposed to the idea of exempting historic districts from form-based 
controls while much of our other well-resourced neighborhoods will be converting to form-based. She noted 
that the areas proposed to revert to numeric controls are not priority equity nor environmental justice 
geographies. She feared that this may set a dangerous precedent for other historic districts, or areas that are 
seeking to become historic districts, to get out of their obligation to accommodate for new housing. Supervisor 
Peskin responded by stating that it was never his intention to allow the heights in this part of the city to be so 
high, which could be accomplished if form-based density is combined with the new amendments to the state 
density bonus law that allow for even greater density than before. He is hoping that reverting to numeric density 
in these districts will prevent large towers along the waterfront and in Jackson Square.  
 
After taking public comment where there were two speakers in opposition to the ordinance and one in favor, 
the Committee voted unanimously to adopt Supervisor Peskin’s amendments. They then voted 2 to one to send 
the item as amended with a positive recommendation to the full board. Supervisors Peskin and Preston voted in 
favor, and Chair Melgar was opposed.  
 
At the full Board this week, the Code Corrections ordinance passed its final read and the Downtown Rail 
Extension Fee Waiver passed its first read.