7. 
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None.  
8. 
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs.  
 
Land Use 
The week Chair Melgar was absent from the Committee so she could attend Jury Duty. Supervisor Dorsey sat in 
on the committee but was not a voting member. 
 
Planning Code, Zoning Map - 2301 Chestnut Street Special Sign District. Sponsor: Dorsey 
 
The first item on the land use committee’s agenda was Supervisor Stephaie’s ordinance that would create a 
special sign district at 2301 Chestnut Street. Commissioners you heard this item on November 14th and 
recommended approval with one modification. This modification was to amend the Ordinance to allow all 
corner Commercial businesses in NC Districts to have two projecting signs. 
 
Because Supervisor Stefani was recently elected and sworn into the state Assembly, Supervisor Dorsey took up 
sponsorship of this ordinance. While the commission’s modification was not added to the original file, the 
ordinance was duplicated and Supervisor Doresy indicated that he would work on the amending the duplicated 
ordinance to allow two projecting signs for corner businesses in all NC Districts. The new ordinance would also 
likely sunset the special sign district as it would no longer be necessary. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 5, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 9 
 
The item was passed out of committee unanimously. 
Planning Code - Impact Fees for Changes of Use From Production, Distribution, and Repair to Other Non-
Residential Uses] 240901 Sponsor: Mayor 
 
Next the Committee considered the mayor’s proposed ordinance to remove Impact Fees for Changes of Use 
from Production, Distribution, and Repair to Other Non-Residential Uses. This item was continued from the Land 
Use Committee on 11/18 to allow for more community outreach.  
 
During the committee hearing, Katy Tang, Director of the Mayor’s office of Small Business, said the mayor was 
not in favor of amending the ordinance and requested it be passed out of committee as is. Supervisor Peskin 
then made a motion to table the ordinance given the mayor’s unwillingness to amend it based on community 
feedback and concerns. The Committee then voted unanimously to table to the ordinance effectively killing it.  
 
Planning Code, Zoning Map - 30 Van Ness Avenue Special Use District; Amendment of Agreement for Sale of 
Real Estate 
 
Next the Committee took up the 30 Van Ness SUD. This item was continued from 11/18. Supervisor Peskin 
indicated he still had more amendments he was working on for this ordinance and proposed continuance to 
12/9. The Committee voted unanimously to continue the item to that date.   
Planning Code - Minimum Densities for Residential Projects in RM, RC, and RTO Districts] 230596 Sponsors: 
Peskin; Chan 
 
Last but not least the Land Use Committee took up Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance that would institute minimum 
density requirements for Residential Projects in RM, RC, and RTO Districts. Our newer commissioners won’t be 
familiar with this one, as it was originally heard by the Planning Commission on July 20, 2023. At that time the 
Commission voted to recommend approval with modifications. Those modifications were to: 
 
1. Modify the Ordinance to replace the Conditional Use authorization requirement with objective, minimum 
density standards for new construction projects in the RM, RC, and RTO districts at 75% of the maximum 
density.  
2. For new construction projects in the subject zoning districts, require that no unit be smaller than 1/3 the 
size of the largest unit in the building. 
3. Replace the Ordinance’s proposed list of exceptions to minimum densities and unit sizes with a simplified, 
single exception. That exception would be “Expansions of single-family homes may expand their Gross 
Floor Area by no more than 25% measured over 10 years, or to result in a home no more than 3,000sqft, 
whichever is greater. 
4. Incentivize projects in the subject zoning districts to build “ideal” projects by removing the Conditional Use 
authorization for demolition, and public-initiated Discretionary Review. 
 
During the hearing Supervisor Peskin introduced amendments to include all but one of the Planning 
Commissions’ recommendations. The one not included would have allowed for demolition project to be 
exempt Conditional Use and DR hearings if specific standards were met.  
 
The Committee accepted all Peskin’s amendments, and the item was continued for one week as the 
amendments were substantive.  
 
Full Board 
 
Planning Code - 524 and 530 Howard Street - Transit Center District Open Space Impact Fee Waiver for 524 
Howard Street, LLC] 240879 Sponsor: Dorsey Passed first read   
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 5, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 9 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I have no report from the Board of Appeals but the Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and 
they considered several Legacy Business Registry applications and Adopted Recommendations for Approval for 
all four. The first was Ace Mailing, the second was African American Shakespeare Company, the third was J’s 
Laundry, and finally, the Walter Adams Framing Retail were all adopted for recommendations for approval. And 
as stated, they considered 1035 Howard Street, and the modifications that they made was to not provide for 
exceptions for the ground floor, 25-foot depth active use, but allowing the exception to the upper floors, and 
so they were also very concerned about providing a robust streetscape and lighting plan along Howard and 
Russ Streets. So, hence the continuance into January for this project, when it will come back to you then. They 
also heard an informational presentation on the Chinese American historic context statement.