10. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None.  
11. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
231221 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey and Melgar. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Last week at the Land Use Committee hearing, the committee again considered the Mayor’s ordinance titled 
Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. This was a duplicate of the original 
file, and was heard and amended the previous week. 
 
During the hearing, Supervisor Peskin circulated a revised version that refined language related to the LCCU 
use sizes and cleaned up some language related to outdoor activity areas, as suggested by Planning. 
 
Supervisor Melgar asked some clarifying questions about the amendments, which staff answered. There 
were no public comments. After the public comment the ordinance was amended as stated and then sent 
with a positive recommendation to the Full Board. 
 
231225 Planning Code - Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments in North of Market Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Preston. Staff: Melone.  
 
Next the committee considered Supervisor Preston’s ordinance titled Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments 
in North of Market Special Use District. This ordinance was amended the previous week and continued since 
the amendments were substantive. At this hearing there was no public comment and no comments from the 
committee members. The item was forwarded to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
240001 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 68 Nantucket Avenue. Sponsor: Commission. Staff: Pantoja.  
 
Next the Committee considered a Planning Commission sponsored ordinance to rezoned 68 Nantucket Ave 
from P to RH-1. Commissioners, you heard this item on November 2 of last year and voted to recommend 
approval. During the committee hearing Supervisor Melgar questions why this wasn’t being zoned to 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 15 
 
something that allowed more housing, but in the end, she was fine moving forward with the ordinance as 
proposed. There was no public comment, and the item was forwarded to the Full Board with a positive 
recommendation.  
 
Full Board 
231079 Planning Code - Density Controls in Three Historic Districts. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Starr. MAYOR'S 
VETO Overturned 
231006 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 900 Kearny Street Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores. 
PASSED Second Read 
240070 Planning Code - Exceptions and Extensions for Existing Uses. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
231225 Planning Code - Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments in North of Market Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Preston. Staff: Melone. PASSED First Read 
240274 Calling for Full-Service Grocery Store in the Tenderloin. Sponsor: Preston. Staff: Haddadan. Adopted 
 
RESULTS OF HEARINGS THIS WEEK:  
Land Use Committee 
• 
No Planning Department Items 
 
Full Board 
231225 Planning Code - Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments in North of Market Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Preston. Staff: Melone. PASSED Second Read 
231221 Planning Code – duplicated file for the Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, 
and Retail Uses. Sponsors: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read 
240001 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 68 Nantucket Avenue. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Pantoja. 
Passed First Read 
240162 Hearing - Appeal of Conditional Use Authorization Approval - 2351 Mission Street. Items 42-45. Staff: 
Starr 
 
Lastly the Board considered the Conditional Use Appeal for 2351 Mission Street, otherwise known as 
Casement’s bar. This item was heard by the Planning Commission in January of this year.  
 
The CU was appealed by the applicant. If you recall, the applicant proposed operating hours extending until 
11 p.m. on weeknights and midnight on weekends. The Planning Department recommended a 10 p.m. 
closure to mitigate potential noise disturbances for nearby residents. After careful consideration and public 
input, this commission adopted the Department's recommendation, approving the project with the 10:00 
PM restriction on the OOA. 
 
Casements appealed your decision because of the imposed 10:00 PM restriction on the OOA. In their appeal, 
they raise four main issues: 1) a misunderstanding of the noise issues by the public and the commission; 2) 
procedural irregularities during the hearing; 3) a lack of consideration and impacts to small business; 4) and 
past president. 
 
The most salient issue of the appeal and the one that seemed to sway the Board the most was the impact 
that the 10 PM closure would have on this community centered small business. The appellant asserted that 
reducing the hours of operation for the OOA would significantly cut into the revenue for Casements. This 
would result in staff layoffs and reduced hours for existing staff. Margins are tight in the food industry, and 
these extra hours allow them to make things work financially.  
 
About 40 people came out to speak in support of the appeal and Casement’s itself. The public speakers 
included many well-known names such as Bevon Dufty, Juanita Moore, Tom Temprano, Ben Bleiman, Honey 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 11 of 15 
 
Mahogany, and Stephen Torres. Many spoke about the establishment’s community centered focus, as a 
refuge for families with children, the queer community, and Irish immigrants. In fact, several Irish immigrants 
spoke about how the bar reminded them of home, and was the most accurate representation of an actual 
Irish pub.  
 
There were also about 8 speakers against the appeal. They were mostly neighbors of the subject bar who 
were concerned about the noise generated by Casement’s. 
 
Prior to public comment Supervisor Ronen asked Casement’s sound engineer about what he recommended 
be done to reduce noise impact on the adjacent neighbors. He listed about three main improvements, 
including increasing the height of the fence, adding sound dampening materials, or removing reflective 
materials inside the patio, and adjusting the speaker placement. After public comment Supervisor Ronen 
gave some thoughtful remarks regarding the issues at hand, and then proceeded to make a motion to accept 
the appeal and amend the conditions of approval. The amendments would require these sound attenuation 
adjustments as conditions of approval, and included deadlines for their implementation.  She also extended 
the hours of operation for the outdoor activity area until 11 p.m. on weeknights and midnight on weekends. 
After making the motion, Supervisor Mandelman second the motion and the vote passed unanimously. 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Diamond, Commissioners, Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. Much briefer, Board 
of Appeals did meet last night. They did not take any final action on any cases of interest to the Planning 
Commission but did hear an initial appeal of, or multiple appeals, of a permit that came before you as a 
Discretionary Review for 45 Bernard Street. That hearing happened last night, but was continued out until May 
29th to allow the project sponsor to supply some additional plans to review alternatives. But so there'll be a fuller 
report on the outcome of that appeal, after the Board takes a final decision on that one. Thank you. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and took up a few matters that might be of interest to 
the Planning Commission. The Palace Hotel is trying to renovate its neon sign, but they're trying to modify it from 
neon to LED and so the Historic Preservation Commission had some concerns about it. And after hearing it twice, 
continued it to May 1st for additional information and to hear it one more time. They also adopted the 
Downtown Conservation District Historic Design Standards and then approved a case and continued another.