11. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None.  
12. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon Commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
Like you, the land use committee had their last meeting of the year this week, and also the last land use 
committee for Supervisors Peskin and Preston.  
241055 Building, Planning Codes - Code Corrections and Updates. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Starr.  
The first item was this commissions’ code corrections ordinance. Commissioners you heard this item on 
September 19 and voted to recommend approval with modifications. All but one of the proposed 
modifications were additional clean-up items, and they were all added to a revised ordinance prior to 
transmittal to the Clerk’s office. The one amendment not added was suggested at the last minute by a 
member of the public. It dealt with allowable uses in conjunction with Self Storage in the PDR-2 zoning. This 
commission stated that they were not opposed to the amendment but that the language needed to be 
worked out with staff. You then left it up to the Land Use Committee to integrate the amendment at the 
committee hearing. 
During the hearing, Supervisor Peskin stated that he wanted to add the amendments. To accommodate this 
and to allow for the original ordinance to move forward, Peskin duplicated the ordinance and amended it. 
The original file was then forwarded to the Full Board with a positive recommendation as a committee 
report.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 11 
 
241103 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Ladies’ Protection and Relief Society (3400 Laguna Street). 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley.  
Next the land use committee considered the landmark designation of Ladies’ Protection and Relief Society 
building at 3400 Laguan Street. This building is eligible for landmark designation because it is significant 
for association with the Ladies’ Protection and Relief Society, San Francisco’s second oldest charitable 
organization and the first established by and for women. Furthermore, the main building, constructed in 
1925 by renowned architect Julia Morgan, is an excellent, rare, and well-preserved example of a commercial 
building designed in the Jacobethan Revival style by an architect of merit. 
During the land use committee, there were two speakers in favor of the proposed designation. There was 
little discussion with the committee members and the designation was unanimously recommended to the 
Full Board.  
240641 Planning Code - Laboratory Uses in the Urban Mixed Use Zoning District. Sponsors: Walton. Staff: V. 
Flores.  
Next the Committee took up Supervisor Walton’s ordinance that prohibits Laboratory uses in the UMU 
zoning district. 
Commissioners, you heard this on August 1st and adopted a recommendation for disapproval. During 
deliberations, you raised concerns about the impacts the proposed Ordinance would have on PDR uses and 
districts. You also expressed concerns regarding the vacancy rate and the potential loss of jobs, especially 
the diversity of jobs associated with Laboratories. 
During the land use hearing, Supervisor Walton stated that the intent of the Ordinance was to ensure the 
UMU districts truly serve as a mixed use district and allow more opportunities for active uses and affordable 
housing in the district. 
There were a handful of public comments in support of the proposed Ordinance, including from the Potrero 
Boosters and Dogpatch Neighborhood Association. There were also a handful of public comments in 
opposition to the proposed Ordinance, including from the Chamber of Commerce. 
Supervisor Melgar suggested moving this forward to the full Board without recommendation. 
Supervisor Peskin stated that he understood the Ordinance to be a clarification of the now repealed Life 
Science and Medical Special Use District. Supervisor Walton echoed this and further emphasized that the 
goal was not to overburden the neighborhood community with Life Science uses. 
Supervisor Walton shared that he intends to introduce amendments to the legislation on December 17th to 
include a grandfathering clause for 700 Indiana Street and General Plan findings. 
The Committee moved this Ordinance forward with recommendation, with Supervisor Melgar voting no. 
Just to note because the Board needs to override this commission’s GP inconsistency findings, it needs a 
supermajority to pass.  
240872 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 30 Van Ness Avenue Special Use District; Amendment of Agreement 
for Sale of Real Estate. Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey. Staff: Giacomucci.  
Next the Committee took up the proposed SUD at 30 Van Ness. This item had been continued several times. 
This week Supervisor Peskin made a motion to amend the ordinance to subject the proposed project to 
project specific inclusionary requirements in Section 415. The project sponsor was not in favor of this 
amendment, as they were seeking credit for the fees already paid to the city so that the project would be 
financially feasible. Requiring inclusionary units on top of the fees already paid would maintain the projects 
infeasibility. Supervisor Melgar voted no on the proposed amendments and voted no on the motion to 
forward the item to the full board with recommendation. However, both Preston and Peskin voted yes.  
230596 Planning Code - Minimum Densities for Residential Projects in RM, RC, and RTO Districts. Sponsors: 
Peskin. Staff: Merlone.  
Finally, the Committee unanimously passed with recommendation Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance to require 
minimum densities in the RM, RC, and RTO zoning districts. This item had been amended last week and had 
to be continued because the amendments were substantive.  
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 11 
 
Full Board 
240879 Planning Code - 524 and 530 Howard Street - Transit Center District Open Space Impact Fee Waiver 
for 524 Howard Street, LLC. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
240931 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 2301 Chestnut Street Special Sign District. Sponsor: Dorsey. Passed 
First Read  
230596 Planning Code - Minimum Densities for Residential Projects in RM, RC, and RTO Districts. Sponsors: 
Peskin. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
241055 Building, Planning Codes - Code Corrections and Updates. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Starr. Passed First Read 
241103 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Ladies’ Protection and Relief Society (3400 Laguna Street). 
Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: LaValley. Passed First Read 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon and happy holidays, President So and Commissioners, Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. 
I am going to give a little bit of a catch-up report from some Board of Appeals cases over the last month or 
so. The first is, was an appeal of, actually a Letter of Determination that I had issued. I don’t typically report 
on those but this one was related to procedural technicalities that do impact how the Planning Commission 
reviews Cannabis Retail Uses. The request was specifically for 500 Laguna Street but the question was a 
universal question and it really had to do with whether or not the Planning Code prohibits the Planning 
Commission from considering more than one Cannabis Retail proposal within a 600-foot radius at a time. 
As you may know the Planning Code does prohibit the establishment of more than one Cannabis Retail Use 
within a 600-foot radius but a Conditional Use Authorization is the front-end entitlement. You know, it’s not 
fully established until you go to the full building permit process and establish that use. And essentially the 
outcome to that in my determination was that the Planning Code does not prohibit, especially the Planning 
Commission, from considering two or more Conditional Use Authorization applications for Cannabis Retail 
within the same radius.  
However, the Planning Code does specifically prohibit the Department from accepting and processing such 
applications unless we get a referral from the Office of Cannabis. So separately the Office of Cannabis, 
through their own code, went to a public rule making process in 2019 on how they would consider and 
process their applications considering the buffer rules where they very specifically and purposely do not 
refer applications to our Department when there is an active application within that 600 foot buffer. So, the 
outcome of that determination essentially was that the code doesn’t prohibit the Planning Commission 
from considering them but effectively because of the rules that the Office of Cannabis had put in place, that 
won’t happen unless their rules change because we won’t receive a Cannabis second application within 600 
feet as long as there is an active application already. So that was appealed and, you know, there was a very 
robust conversation about the procedure technicalities at the Board but ultimately they did unanimously 
uphold the determination and denied that appeal.  
Then moving on to 1819 Fulton Street, you may recall this project has been before you twice, first as a 
Conditional Use Authorization several years ago and then this past March as a Discretionary Review (DR). 
This was a large mid-block interior lot parcel with a small strip of land that connected the Fulton Street. The 
proposal was to build four dwelling units within that. It was originally before you as Conditional Use (CU) 
because the density triggered the Conditional Use requirement. You granted that Conditional Use, the 
board on appeal, had taken that down to two units instead of four. Subsequently with the Constraints 
Reduction Ordinance and the Four Plex Ordinance, that project did not require the CU, it came back again, 
the building permits were DR’d so it came before you. That was before you this past March. You again 
approved that project for the four dwelling units on that interior lot. Those permits were appealed, that’s 
what was at the Board of Appeals. There was again a very robust and interesting conversation about life, 
safety and egress and what not but ultimately the Board did uphold the permits. They made one minor 
change that the applicant was completely okay with which was simply to move the location of the entry 
gate further in because it just open the width of that door a little bit more for safety purposes just to provide 
a wider doorway since that would be the only access point in and out. It is a very minor change but 
ultimately, they upheld the project as it was proposed and that was also a unanimous vote.  
Separately the project at 700 Indiana Street, this was a Large Project Authorization that you approved in 
July of this year for the new construction of a laboratory building and that Large Project Authorization was 
appealed to the Board of Appeals, and that was scheduled and continued multiple times. It was actually 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 11 
 
scheduled to be heard last night but that was withdrawn because the appeal was withdrawn because the 
appellants and the project sponsor came to an agreement. My understanding is that the project will add a 
modest amount of retail space on the ground floor or where there hadn’t been in the original project. So 
that was withdrawn and not heard by the Board and will move forward.  
And then lastly there was a project before you earlier this year, multiple hearings but you made a decision 
in April this year for 4000 21st Street. This was an expansion of a single-family home subject to the central 
neighborhood’s Large Residence Special Use District and the Commission had required the addition of an 
ADU, a second unit, so they had come back and they had done that. The immediate rear property owner 
neighbor had opposed it but ultimately after plans were slightly amended that Conditional Use 
Authorization was approved. The project had later on to receive a different permit to do some related but 
not the primary work in the rear to do some excavation and add some features in the rear immediately 
adjacent to their rear neighbors. They appealed that permit or actually, to be clear, they did not appeal the 
permit, the request was for a jurisdiction request to be able to appeal it because it was after the appeal 
period. So there was some interesting conversation. Some of the board members felt that there are some 
scenarios where we are not required to notify neighbors of permits being issued and they don’t know that 
they can appeal it and we should notify neighbors more but ultimately, they recognize that is not the 
process we have now and there are some permits that simply they do not require notification and can be 
approved over the counter. And so they did deny that appeal unanimously so that project should also be 
moving forward. But that’s all I have today. Thank you.