8. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None. 
9. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
Land Use Committee  
240806 Public Works Code, Planning Code - Fee Waiver for Vicha Ratanapakdee Mosaic Stairway] Sponsor: 
Stefani. Staff: Merlone. 
 
This week the Land Use Committee considered an ordinance sponsored by Supervisor Stefani that would Waiver 
Planning and DPW fees for Vicha Ratanapakdee Mosaic Stairway.  
Commissioners, you heard this item on consent on September 26, 2024, and recommended approval.   
During the hearing Supervisor Stefani’s aide presented the item. He proposed a few non substantive 
amendments that were accepted by the Committee.  
There was no public comment and no significant comments from the committee members. Chair Melgar made 
amotion to move the item to the full board with a positive recommendation, which passed unanimously.  
 
231268 Planning Code - Eliminating Public Art Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects] Sponsor: 
Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. Item 5 
 
Next the committee considered Supervisor Dorsey’s ordinance that would Eliminate the 1% Public Art 
Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects.  
Commissioners you heard this item in November of last year and recommended approve with amendments. 
Those amendments have already been made in a duplicated, more narrowly tailer ordinance that has already 
passed. That ordinance allowed existing art at 100% affordable housing projects to be removed.  
Just a quick reminder. The 1% for art requirement for housing only exists in the C-3 zoning district. Very few 100% 
affordable housing projects get built in the downtown area, but some have, and this art requirement has caused 
issues with ongoing maintenance. It also increased the cost to build these projects.  
Also, as part of our Housing Element, the city pledged to remove this requirement, and HCD included this item 
in its Policies and Practices Review letter. Removing this requirement does not prohibit affordable housing 
projects from including art, it’s just removing the planning code requirement.  
During the hearing Madison Tam from Supervisor Dorsey office presented the item to the committee. Ms. Tam 
proposed amendments to take out portions of the ordinance that were already adopted in the duplicated 
ordinance. These amendments were taken unanimously.  
There were two public commentors both representing the nonprofit housing developer community, one 
commentor was in support of the proposed ordinance and one was against the ordnance. Supervisor Melgar 
spoke on the importance of making attractive affordable housing and the need to support our nonprofit 
developers in doing this. There were no other comments from the committee members. Melgar suggested that 
the item be forwarded without a recommendation based on feedback from Supervisor Peskin. This motion 
passed unanimously.  
 
Full Board 
 
240438 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Establishing the 555 9th Street Special Sign District. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: 
V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 10, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 11 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon again, President So and Commissioners, Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board of 
Appeals did meet last night, and they did consider one item of interest to the Commission. If you'll recall, last 
summer, some more than a year ago, the Commission heard and approved the Conditional Use Authorization, 
the proposed ordinance, and the coastal permit for the Irish Cultural Center project at 2700 45th Avenue. The 
legislation went on and was adopted by the Board of Supervisors. The Conditional Use Authorization was not 
appealed, but the coastal permit was appealed, and through that appeal process and coordination with the 
Coastal Commission, we determined that there were some technical updates that were necessary for the Coastal 
Commission to certify to amend our local coastal program. And so, a big chunk of this past year was going 
through that work in coordination with the Coastal Commission, to submit a proposed amendment to our local 
coastal program that ended up at the Coastal Commission this past July, where it was unanimously adopted so 
that our local coastal program is now fully compliant in a way that does support the proposal for the new Irish 
Cultural Center. The appeal hearing for that coastal permit was last night. The Planning Code dictates that the 
Board of Appeals for those types of appeals. It's not essentially a yes or no to grant or deny the appeal. They 
actually have to adopt new findings of consistency that the project is consistent with our local coastal program. 
So, we actually provided an updated draft permit with new findings for them to consider. There was a lively 
conversation about the entire process over the past year, but ultimately the Commission or the Board of Appeals 
did vote unanimously to adopt the new findings and essentially grant the updated coastal permit so that the 
Irish Cultural Center project can now move forward. But that concludes my presentation. I'm available for any 
questions.