8. 
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
9. 
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners. Aaron Starr manager of Legislative Affairs 
Land Use Committee  
 
240263 Planning Code - Divisadero Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District. Sponsor: Preston. 
Staff: V. Flores. 
 
The week the Land Use Committee considered Supervisor Preston’s ordinance that would amend the 
Planning Code to permit liquor stores in buildings with off-street parking accessed on Broderick Street 
within the Divisadero Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District (NCT). As you likely recall this is 
intended to help the mixed use complect that houses Falletti’s grocery store.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 6, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 11 
 
The Planning Commission heard this on May 30th and recommended approval with modifications. The 
modifications were technical in nature and included: 
1. Amend the footnote to specifically cite the block and lot number, instead of referencing the existing 
conditions; and  
2. Amend the proposed footnote for clarity. 
 
The Planning Commission also encouraged the BOS to consider amending the Divisadero NCT Zoning 
Control Table to conditionally permit Liquor Stores on the ground floor. 
 
During the hearing, Supervisor Preston incorporated the two technical amendments into the proposed 
Ordinance. There was one public comment in support of the proposed Ordinance from the property owner, 
Tick Falletti. 
 
Supervisor Melgar supported the Ordinance and noted she looked forward to future discussions on 
widening the amendment. She also noted future opportunities as physical bank locations are not as 
prevalent in today’s economy. 
 
The Ordinance was then forwarded to the full Board with a positive recommendation as a committee report. 
 
240228 Planning Code, Local Coastal Program Amendment - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural 
Center Special Use District. Sponsors: Engardio; Peskin. Staff: Pantoja. Item 3 
240563 Local Coastal Program Amendment - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural Center Special Use 
District. Sponsors: Engardio; Peskin. Staff: Pantoja. Item 4 
Lastly the Committee considered an ordinance that would amend the Planning Codde and Local Coastal 
Program for the Wawona Street and 45th Avenue SUD, along with the corresponding Resolution amending 
the Local Coastal Program. Commissioners, you heard this item on May 2 and recommended approval. 
 
At the land use hearing, there were about 10 public commenters, about half in favor and half opposed. The 
opposition objected to amending the Local Coastal plan and were under the impression that it had 
implications beyond the Irish Cultural Center. They were also against the proposed project at the Irish 
Cultural Center. Those in support spoke of the center fondly as a community space and of the need to 
improve the center to respond to changing times.  
 
The Committee members did not have any questions for staff and made some brief remarks in support of 
the center. Ultimately the item was forwarded to the Full Board as a committee report. The resolution also 
passed but not as a committee report; however, the two items will pass a the same time since the ordinance 
needs two read at the board and the resolution only needs one.   
 
Full Board 
240193 Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsors: Chan; Dorsey, Stefani, Mandelman, Preston, Melgar and Engardio. 
Staff: Flores. PASSED Second Read 
 
240353 Landmark Designation - The Gregangelo Museum. Sponsors: Melgar. Staff: LaValley. Passed First 
Read 
 
240228 Planning Code, Local Coastal Program Amendment - Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural 
Center Special Use District. Sponsors: Engardio; Peskin. Staff: Pantoja. Passed First Read 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 6, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 11 
 
240263 Planning Code - Divisadero Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District. Sponsor: Preston. 
Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read 
Tina Tam, Deputy Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Diamond, and members of the Commission, I’m Tina Tam, Deputy Zoning 
Administrator. The Board of Appeals did not meet last night but they did meet last week on May 29th. At that 
hearing, the Board decided on one case of interest to the Planning Commission. This Commission previously 
heard a DR for a building permit at 45 Barnard Street in August 2022. The scope of the work for this permit is to 
construct a rear expansion to an existing three-unit building and to add a roof deck for the top unit. The DR 
hearing focused heavily on the owner move-in evictions that occurred for two of the three units. 
Documentations and testimonies did show that all state and local laws were followed. While the DR requestor 
raised concerns about the depth of the proposed building, this Commission determined that the depth and 
massing was appropriate. However, this Commission took issue with the proposed roof deck and voted 4 to 1 
with two absences to take DR and place conditions on this permit. The conditions were to, 1) remove the roof 
deck and associated spiral stairs, 2) to reconfigure the third floor to be consistent with the second floor, 3) to 
require the project sponsor to provide an update to the Commission 6 months after permit the issuance, and 4) 
to encourage any relocation of the remaining tenants and construction to be a short as possible. 
  
The permit was issued in January of this year and was appealed by the DR requestor and the property owner. 
Both requesting different outcomes of this Commission’s DR decision. During the review of this appeal, staff has 
discovered a couple of changes. It was determined that the required rear yard for the project had increased by 
three inches due to the Constraints Reduction Ordinance. The amount of open space have been slightly 
decreased for the lower two units and DBI required a fire escape at the rear of the building for emergency rescue 
purposes. The Board heard the appeal on April the 3rd and heard many of the same arguments that was raised 
during the DR hearing. There were significant public comments and a lengthy discussion by the Board where 
several design options were considered. Ultimately, the Board voted to allow the roof deck, which was 
previously removed by this Commission, as part of the project so long as contextually designed, consistent with 
the nearby decks, and compliant with the residential design guidelines. The Board noted that the roof deck had 
not been a concern raised by any of the opposing neighbors. The vote was 3 to 1 with one absence to continue 
the hearing to May 29th and requested the project sponsor to submit revised plans reinstating the roof deck and 
the spiral stairs, revise the rear of the building to meet the new building code and the Planning code 
requirements, and to adjust the open space for the two lower units. The project sponsor worked directly with 
the Building Department and the Planning Department during this time to ensure the revised plans were fully 
code complying.  Additionally, the Department conducted a formal UDU screening for the basement level and 
determined that no UDU existed. Although there is currently a separate building permit on file with the City to 
add an ADU on the ground floor. At the May 29th hearing, the board lamented the history of this case, 
encouraged better communication in the future and voted 5 to 0 to grant the project sponsor’s appeal and 
approved the project as revised with no additional conditions. That concludes my report. I am happy to answer 
any questions.      
Richard Sucre, Deputy Director for Current Planning: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Rich Sucre, Department staff, providing you the report from this past week’s 
Historic Preservation Commission hearing. At HPC yesterday, the HPC passed five Legacy Business applications 
including Bob’s Donuts and The Verdi Club which was excellent. They also approved a Permit to Alter to replace 
the Palace Hotel sign, adding additional conditions basically related to the temporary nature of the LEDs as well 
as providing for additional study regarding adhesives and additional enamels that are required basically as part 
of that. And then the HPC approved two Certificates of Appropriateness for properties located within Alamo 
Square and the basically Bush Cottage Row area. So, this concludes the HPC report. Thank you.