15. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
I'm not sure if we mentioned this in the past, but Lydia So has been nominated to sit on the Planning 
Commission by the Mayor to replace Commissioner Tanner. I believe she's scheduled for Rules next week, or 
that's what's anticipated. So, she's likely to join us sometime in May. She was on the Historic Preservation 
Commission, currently on the MTA Commission. So, we look forward to seeing her here. 
16. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee 
240089 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - San Francisco Fire Station No. 44. Sponsors: Walton; 
Peskin. Staff: LaValley.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 13 
 
This week, the land use committee considered the landmark designation for SF Fire Station No. 44, located 
at 1298 Girard Street in Visitation Valley.  This designation was initiated by the Board in September of last 
year and sponsored by Supervisor Walton. The HPC unanimously recommended approval of the designation 
on 12/20/23. 
 
Designed by City Architect John Reid, Jr., Fire Station 44 was constructed in 1913 and is one of oldest active 
fire stations in SF.  Fire Station 44 is significant for association with the expansion of Fire Department in 
1910s, is an excellent example of a Classical Revival style, a brick fire station, and it is representative of the 
work of an architect of merit.  
 
At the hearing this week, President Peskin joined as co-sponsor. There was no public comment that the LUT 
forwarded item to BOS with positive recommendation. 
 
240170 Planning Code - Density Controls in Three Historic Districts. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Merlone.  
 
Next the Committee took up the duplicated file of Supervisor Peskin’s Density Controls in Three Historic 
Districts ordinance. You may recall the original ordinance was vetoed by the mayor and that veto was 
overridden by the Board with Supervisor Stefani providing one of the deciding votes. The duplicated file 
was also created by Supervisor Stefani.  
 
The original ordinance reverted the Jackson Square Historic District, its extension, and the Northeast 
Waterfront Historic District to numeric density controls. It also created an exception to allow form-based 
density controls in these districts if the project is utilizing the Commercial to Residential Adaptive Reuse 
Program. 
 
At the Land Use Committee this week, Supervisor Stefani joined the committee to introduce her proposed 
amendments to a duplicated ordinance. These amendments would allow for form-based density in the 
subject historic districts but would limit the use of the State Density Bonus to no more than 50% of the base 
density.  
 
Because these amendments are substantive, this duplicated and amended ordinance has been re-referred 
to the Planning Commission. 
 
Full Board 
240199 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Treasure Island/Yerba Buena Island. Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey. Staff: 
Look. Passed First Read 
 
240246 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - Proposed 72 
Harper Street Project. Staff: Shum.  
 
Lastly, the Board considered the CEQA appeal for 72 Haper Street. This project would construct a three-story 
rear addition to an existing single-family dwelling and elevate portions of the existing roof to add a 
bedroom and bathroom on the third floor. The proposal would also add an ADU to the ground floor.  
 
Commissioners, you heard this project on February 8 of this year and declined to take discretionary review 
as the project met the RDG. It is also a reasonably sized addition that creates more housing.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 13 
 
The CEQA determination was appealed by several adjacent neighbors. The appellants contended that the 
department did not properly evaluate the project and that the subject property is a historic resource. As a 
result, the appellants claimed that the project should not be eligible for a categorical exemption. 
 
However, as the department explained, the project would not affect potential character defining features 
on the subject building that could lead to its designation as a historic resource. As a result, a historic resource 
evaluation was not required and that the project was eligible for a categorical exemption. 
 
During the hearing, Supervisor Mandelman asked questions about our current notification requirements 
given the passage of the constraint’s reduction ordinance. He also asked the department to clarify the 
project in relation to potential character defining features. 
 
There were no public comments made during the Board hearing either for or against the appeal.  
 
At the conclusion of the hearing, Supervisor Mandelman stated that he sensed that the appellant was simply 
appealing a DR Action to the Board, and that the issues were not CEQA related. As such, he made a motion 
to reject the appeal and uphold the department’s decision to prepare a categorical exemption for the 
project. The Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to approve the motion.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Mr. Starr, would you mind explaining briefly to what extent the Board of Supervisors discussed Treasure Island. 
I mean we deliberated very intensely on it and the – 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Discussed the, I’m sorry – 
Commissioner Moore: 
The Treasure Island  
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
They usually don’t discuss that things very much at the Full Board on first read but I can review the Land Use 
Committee’s chair and see if they have more comments.  
Commissioner Moore: 
It would be interesting because we really wanted to learn for the COP. Something which we, at least speaking 
for myself, a completely unfamiliar with and wondering if they had any discussion about that that I would 
personally be interested to learn if there were discussions so [inaudible].   
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Sure. Like I said, most discussions tend to happen at the Land Use Committee but I can check back with the 
planner to see what happened with that.  
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
And I think this even went to Budget and Finance Committee as well as Land Use.  
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Oh, okay. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
So, there were two hearings that the board had and I know was discussed extensively at both. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 11 of 13 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
If you wouldn’t mind giving us next time or whenever it’s appropriate. If we have some way of where that is 
going. 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
I’m gone for a month so you’ll have to, but I’ll find someone else.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Thanks. 
Corey Teague – Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Diamond, Commissioners, Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board of 
Appeals met last week but did not take up any items of interest to the Planning Commission and they did not 
meet last night, and they'll meet again on May 8th. Thank you.