12. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Nothing additional, just welcome Commissioner So. It seems like you haven’t left because you were with us 
under the HPC, and we worked with you for many years. Thank you for your contribution there, and just 
welcome to the Planning Commission. 
Commissioner So: 
I’m just going to be really brief, and I’m really happy and honored to be here to see some familiar faces. And 
also see some new friends and colleagues. I hope that coming back with my various Commission gigs, I can 
bring a little bit more, kind of connectivity with across agencies. And I’m just thrilled to be able to continue to 
serve the City and move the City in the way where we need to adapt to population growth and our economic 
resiliency. So, thank you for having me here. Looking forward to dive in. 
13. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Audrey Merlone: 
Hello, Commissioners, Audrey Merlone with Legislative Affairs, here for Aaron Starr today. A fairly short report 
for you. First, at Land Use this week, we had the amended version of the 900 Kearney SUD. This ordinance is a 
follow up to the original 900 Kearney Street SUD which became effective on April 26th. This ordinance would 
amend the SUD by adding a new height exemption to allow for an enclosed rooftop structure that will be used 
as an artist studio. The Planning Commission heard this item last week on May 2nd and unanimously 
recommended approval with one modification that was a technical amendment drafted by the Department 
and supported by the Supervisor’s office. At Land Use Committee, there was no public comment on this item 
before the committee unanimously voted to approve the ordinance with that technical amendment. And then 
at the Full Board this week, we had the Landmark Designation for Fire Station No. 44 which finally passed. 
Commissioner So was unanimously appointed to our Planning Commission so welcome Commissioner So. And 
then we had the 900 Kearney SUD. So, during the 900 Kearney SUD items, Supervisor Peskin stated that in the 
24 hours since the Land Use Committee hearing, he had received phone calls from constituents who were 
concerned about that technical amendment. Mostly because they were not first consulted and they were not 
sure what the amendment did. So, although this amendment is not substantive, Supervisor Peskin proposed to 
remove it from the ordinance, which was approved unanimously. And then the ordinance without this technical 
modification passed its first read. Always available for extra questions if you have them. Thank you.       
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you. The Board of Appeals met last night and considered two items of interest to the Planning 
Commission. First, they heard an appeal of the demolition permit, a new construction permit for the project at 
617 Sanchez Street. The proposed is to demolish a single-family home and its detached garage and to construct 
a new single-family home. A separate permit is on file to also add an ADU. The adjacent uphill neighbors were 
the appellants and their primary concern during this appeal were potential impacts to privacy and structural 
concerns related to the steep slope of the lot and block. These issues were also presented during a previous 
CEQA appeal and Discretionary Review for the project. The CEQA appeal was denied by the Board of Supervisors 
and the Planning Commission voted +4 -2 to not take Discretionary Review in early 2021, excuse me early 2020. 
The Board of Appeals focused only on concerns around ensuring adequate boring and structural review for the 
project given the nature of the site and considered requiring more borings or requiring DBI Structural Advisory 
Committee to review the project. Ultimately, the Board unanimously voted to deny the appeals of the 

San Francisco Planning Commission