5. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just a calendar update. One, thank you for the hearing last week on the Housing 
Element Implementation and Rezoning, obviously. And thank you for the public who came out to testify. There's 
been a lot of interest in that since too and requests for meetings with our team from neighborhood groups. So, 
we will push out the next hearing just to give us enough time to have some of those meetings and have meetings 
with supervisors and come back to you with kind of updates from those meetings. So likely, I think we talked 
about February 22nd as the next hearing on Housing Element Implementation and Rezoning. We're likely to 
push that to early mid-March, just FYI. On the Affordable Housing and the report regarding funding for 
Affordable Housing and the Affordable Housing Leadership Council's recommendations, we still plan on having 
that in February, I think the last meeting, February 29th. So, that'll stay on the calendar, and we'll likely push out 
the rezoning hearings to early mid-March. 
 
President Diamond: 
And the consideration of the adoption of the resolution that Commissioner Ruiz discussed. That's February 29th 
as well, too.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, although we talked, the Board has passed a resolution already, kind of doing the same thing. So, we should 
just discuss whether that's needed at this point, because we would have likely urged the Board and the Mayor 
to take that position. They've already taken that position, requesting that the state maintain funding for 
affordable housing.  
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Yeah. Regarding the resolution at the Board, because I had discussed this with some community members who 
were concerned about the cuts to affordable housing, and then I referenced the resolution. It seems like that 
seems sufficient. And so I don't know what direction the Commission wants to take other than acknowledging 
that resolution. I don't know if we adopt that resolution as well. I’m not sure what the procedures are.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I mean, normally our resolution would be to urge them. So I think it's kind of taken care of. But we'll get 
into the details of those specific items, regarding state funding and federal funding and local funding. So you'll 
have the ability to opine and then if there's a desire to do something, additional resolutions, etc., we can certainly 
do that. But I’d suggest having that hearing first. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Could you share the transcript of that particular resolution with us? 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
That would be very helpful. I did not attend the meeting. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 8, 2024 
Meeting Minutes  
Page 4 of 10 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
It was at the board for adoption with our committee reference to [inaudible] 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Just give us the report that would help us out. 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure, yeah yeah. 
6. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Land Use Committee 
230310 Planning Code - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. 
This week the land use committee considered the State-Mandated ADU controls update. Commissioner’s you 
heard this item on September 28th during which time you recommended approval with one modification: 
Amend the Code to exclude ADUs from dwelling unit mix requirements. 
 
This item appeared in front of the Land Use and Transportation Committee two weeks ago on January 22nd 
with the intention of incorporating additional amendments related to new state bills, noticing, and historic 
preservation. This week those amendments were added to the ordinance. 
Supervisor Peskin shared he had two additional amendments that he planned to add to a duplicated 
ordinance. The intent behind his amendments was to steer more applicants to our Local ADU Program to get 
more rent-controlled units. These amendments have not yet been drafted, and still need more analysis by 
the CA’s office. 
 
Supervisor Melgar expressed concern over the city losing its Pro-Housing Designation if this ordinance was 
not adopted in time.  The deadline is March 19th. And staff indicated that we may still be able to adopt these 
changes by that date; however, they would not be effective by then. HCD has not yet confirmed whether 
they would use the effective date or the adoption date for the Pro-Housing Designation 
 
There were six public commentors with the vast majority in support of the Ordinance. 
  
The file was then duplicated. The original amended file was then continued to the call of the Chair and is 
being referred to the Planning Commission. The duplicate file was not amendment and continued for one 
week. 
230808 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family Housing Opportunity 
Special Use District] Sponsors: Melgar; Engardio. Staff: V. Flores.  
Next the Committee considered the duplicated Family Housing Opportunity SUD. The original file was 
sponsored by Supervisor Melgar and effective last October. This duplicated ordinance is mainly championed 
by Supervisor Engardio and permits additional density and increased height limits for eligible Corner Lots 
within the SUD. 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on October 5th of last year and recommended approval with 
modifications. The recommended modifications are as follows: 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 8, 2024 
Meeting Minutes  
Page 5 of 10 
 
 
1. Permit density exception limits up to one Dwelling Unit per 1,000 square feet of lot area. This 
recommendation was intended to correct an error in the ordinance. 
2. Include RM-1 in the eligible Zoning Districts for the SUD and allow lot mergers in RM-1 and all RH 
Zoning Districts. 
3. Revise the required rear yard requirements to allow for this Corner Lot provision to shift the rear yard 
to the interior corner of the lot. 
4. Decrease the proposed corner lot height limits from 65’ to 55’. 
 
The Supervisor did take the bulk of the Commission’s recommended modifications; however, he did not take 
the Commissions’ proposed height reduction amendment, and the RM zoning district amendments were 
limited to D4.  
 
There were approximately ten public commentors, with about half in support of and half in opposition to the 
proposed Ordinance. Those that spoke in support noted that the proposed Ordinance responds to the lack 
of middle-housing income for the 80-120% AMI range. Supporters also commented on the need for more 
housing, especially for families, and the ability to stay in place across different phases of life.  
 
Those that spoke in opposition to the proposed Ordinance said we need more affordable housing -not 
market rate housing- and complained that more housing will further exacerbate parking needs in the 
neighborhoods.  
 
Peskin inquired about the Commission’s recommendation to limit the height to 55’ and why it was not 
incorporated. Engardio responded that based on his discussions with developers, six stories is the “magic 
number” to make these projects feasible. 
 
The amendments were incorporated into the file and continued for one week because they were substantive. 
231164 Planning Code - Downtown Rail Extension Fee Waiver. Sponsors: Dorsey; Mandelman. Staff: 
Giacomucci. 
Last the Committee considered Supervisor Dorsey’s Downtown Rail Extension Fee Waiver Ordinance. This 
ordinance would allow conditional waivers of the Transportation Sustainability Fee and Eastern 
Neighborhoods Infrastructure Impact Fee for projects located along the Downtown Rail Extension. This 
waiver is in exchange for constructing foundations and shoring systems designed to not impact the proposed 
Rail Tunnel. 
 
Commissioner’s you considered this item on December 14, 2023, and voted to recommend approval. 
 
During the Land Use Committee hearing, there was no public comment and no significant comments or 
questions from the Committee members. The item was then forwarded to the Full Board on a positive 
recommendation.  
Full Board 
231144 Planning, Administrative Codes - Code Corrections Ordinance. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Merlone. Passed first Read  
231285 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - Proposed 2395 
Sacramento Street Project. Staff: George.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 8, 2024 
Meeting Minutes  
Page 6 of 10 
 
The Board considered the CEQA Appeal for 2395 Sacramento Street this week. This was the first CEQA appeal 
of a General Plan Evaluation. 
 
The existing building on the site is the Cooper Medical College Health and Science Library, a 3-story Article 
10 city landmark. The proposed project would use the State Density Bonus law to add 6-story addition and 
an 8-story addition to the existing building, creating 24 residential units. The project was heard by the HPC 
and PC, with unanimous approval. 
  
The appellant was a neighbor adjacent to the project site. He objected to the department’s use of the 
programmatic Housing Element EIR to streamline environmental review for the project. The appellant 
argued that the department’s General Plan Evaluation (GPE) determination improperly sidestepped all 
environmental review and was a never-before-used invention of the department. The appellant also asserted 
the department failed to identify peculiar impacts to the Historic Resource, in addition to other 
environmental topic impacts.  
 
In response, the department demonstrated that the GPE complies with CEQA and follows the same approach 
as hundreds of Community Plan Evaluations (CPEs) issued in SF since 2009. The difference this time is the use 
of the Housing Element EIR for streamlining, which does comply with CEQA. The project also went through 
extensive project-level evaluation of impacts to historic resources, and how mitigation measures were 
applied to reduce significant impacts to a less-than-significant level. 
  
During public comment in support of the appeal, approximately 19 people spoke against the project due to 
its impact to the historic resource and requested additional environmental review. Approximately 11 people 
spoke in support of the department’s CEQA determination, and in favor of the project’s adaptive reuse for 
housing.   
  
Questions from Supervisors Mandelman, Dorsey, and Stefani included asking the Department to elaborate 
on the approach to identifying project impacts in the context of GPEs under the Housing Element EIR. In 
addition, the department was asked to clarify the project-level review required in a GPE to identify significant 
impacts and required mitigation for Historic Resources.  
 
Supervisor Stefani provided closing remarks, noting that the department was very clear in the Housing 
Element EIR about its intention to streamline CEQA review of future housing development, and the 
department’s project-level review of the project was sufficient. She noted that if the board followed the 
appellants’ arguments, then all projects could be considered peculiar – effectively prohibiting streamlining 
altogether. She further went on to encourage the Board to affirm their commitment to the policies passed in 
the Housing Element and to say yes to building affordable housing and family housing in a high resource 
area. 
 
When called to a vote, the Supervisors affirmed the general plan evaluation and denied the appeal +10-1 
with Supervisor Peskin opposed. Supervisor Peskin provided no remarks during the hearing, making it 
unclear why he decided to vote no.  
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Diamond, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. It's a tough report to 
have to follow up. The Board of Appeals did meet last night, and they heard one case that is of interest to the 
Commission. And it was the appeal of the Coastal Zone Permit for the Great Highway Pilot Project and associated 
Traffic Calming Measures. That coastal permit was heard and granted by the Commission in November 9th of 
last year. There was a decent amount of public comment at that hearing, but the Planning Commission granted 
that unanimously. There were three appellants to that decision and their concerns were primarily around issues 
of noncompliance with our local coastal program and with environmental impacts and or the lack of more 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 8, 2024 
Meeting Minutes  
Page 7 of 10 
 
environmental study of the pilot program. It was a lively hearing, about five hours. We had around 90 public 
commenters, both in person and remotely. At the hearing, the Board did deliberate and ask a lot of questions, 
and they shared some of the concerns from the appellants. But ultimately determined that they would not be in 
a position to make alternative findings that the permit was not consistent with the local coastal program. So, 
they did ultimately vote 3 to 1, with one Commissioner absent, to deny the appeal and uphold the coastal zone 
permit. As you may recall, the coastal zone is kind of split into three districts, one being full Coastal Commission 
jurisdiction, one being very much full local and one kind of in the middle, which is where this project was, where 
it's kind of all local process. But there's still also an appeal option to the Coastal Commission. So that is still an 
option going forward for that coastal zone permit. Thank you. 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you. The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday. They held their Election of Officers and 
reelected Commissioner Matsuda as President and Commissioner Nageswaran as Vice President. They then went 
on to hear the proposed Department Budget and Work Program and adopted a recommendation to you to 
approve today and heard an informational presentation on the Waterfront Resilience Program, which you will 
also hear, I believe in the beginning of March.