11. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thank you. Commissioners, I was going to make the same note that we did receive that Pro Housing designation. 
It also came kind of a year and a day after the state issued the Policy and Practice Review and we’ve made great 
progress. There are a couple of items that’s still kind of remain and we can give you an update on kind of where 
things stand with the Policy and Practice Review. Also to note, Ms. Schuttish kind of brings up the Flat Policy, 
and I think she’ll bring it up today too. But I wanted to remind you, it is 1) the policy is in effect, you’ve adopted 
it. We kind of treated it as a code, But it is on our work program, will come to you as part of the rezoning work 
that actually codifying the Flat Policy. So, looking forward to that as well. Thank you. 
12. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
My husband started practicing Qi Gung a couple of years ago. If you’re not familiar it’s like Tai Chi, Tai Chi is 
more martial arts based, and Qi Gong is more focused on moving energy in and around the body. 
So, energy, or Qi, has been a topic of conversation around my house a lot lately, and I’m starting to notice it 
more myself. The energy when you walk into a room and whether it has good or bad vibes, or you can tell if 
someone is tense or relaxed by the Qi they are giving off. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 7, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 11 
 
Cities also have Qi. Los Angeles, New York, and Wichita all have vastly different Qi, and that Qi can change 
based on the season changing or what’s going on in the world.  
You could really feel a different kind of Qi in San Francisco yesterday. It was a beautiful day, but the streets 
weren’t bustling. You could feel this communal vibe everywhere. Best word I can use to describe it is 
melancholy. When I was out, walking around, I saw it in people, the tenderness in their step and the soft 
sadness on their faces.  
That was a good reminder for me that part of our job here at planning is to build and maintain a city that 
fosters not only good Qi, but a city that can also help hold our collective grief and sadness, so when bad 
things happen, we don’t feel so alone.  
I didn’t feel great yesterday, I don’t feel great today, but I don’t feel alone either. And that’s saying 
something. 
 
Land Use 
240802 Planning Code - Authorize Increases to the Affordable Price and Income Limits for Certain Below 
Market Rate Owned Units and Require Amenities to be Resold with Unit. Sponsor: Melgar. 
Last week the land use committee met and considered Supervisor Melgar’s ordinance that would authorize 
Increases to the Affordable Price and Income Limits for Certain Below Market Rate Units. 
The proposed Ordinance adds a new waiver for BMR units that were purchased at a higher price than the 
affordable resale price of today.  
On October 17th, the Planning Commission adopted a recommendation for approval with amendments. The 
two amendments were: 
1. Add a ten-unit trigger for a report to the Planning Commission, and 
2. Allow the Planning Commission to delegate authority to staff. <<<note for you, this was already in the 
ordinance so there are no further amendments to this effect>>> 
During the hearing, Supervisor Melgar read amendments into the record including: 
1. requiring MOHCD to report to the TAC, Planning Commission, and the Board after 10 price adjustments, 
and every 10 thereafter. 
2. requiring MOHCD to submit a report to BOS within 12 months of effective date, and every 12 months 
thereafter. 
Supervisor Peskin inquired about potentially sunsetting the proposed Ordinance 36 months from 
effective date, which Melgar was opposed to. 
During Public Comment, there was one speaker, John Avalos from CCHO who spoke about his concerns over 
the proposed ordinance.  
The Committee took two actions: 1) amended the ordinance as described, duplicated the file, and 
recommended the original ordinance as amended to the full board as a committee report and 2) continued 
the duplicate file (as amended) to Nov. 18th. 
 
240727 Planning Code; Zoning Map - New Asia Senior Housing Special Use District - 758 and 772 Pacific 
Avenue. Sponsors: Peskin and Chan. Passed First Read 
Next the Committee heard the ordnance sponsored by Supervisor Peskin that would create the New Asia 
Senior Housing Special Use District at 758 and 772 Pacific Avenue. 
The new SUD would support a 175-unit 100% affordable senior housing project mainly by increasing the 
height limit in the SUD to 155 feet 
The Planning Commission heard this item on September 19th and adopted a recommendation for approval 
with one proposed amendment, which was to rename the SUD to simply “758 and 772 Pacific Avenue 
Affordable Senior Housing SUD”. 
The Supervisor decided to keep the current name, so that the amendment was not accepted.  
There were five comments in support of the ordinance including commends from CCDC, community leaders, 
and Chinatown residents. Preston and Melgar also signed on as co-sponsors. 
At the end of public comment, the committee recommended the item as a committee report to the Full 
Board.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 7, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 11 
 
Board Last Week 
240806 Public Works Code, Planning Code - Fee Waiver for Vicha Ratanapakdee Mosaic Stairway. Sponsor: 
Stefani. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
231268 Planning Code - Eliminating Public Art Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects. Sponsor: 
Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
240727 Planning Code; Zoning Map - New Asia Senior Housing Special Use District - 758 and 772 Pacific 
Avenue. Sponsors: Peskin and Chan. Passed First Read 
240802 Planning Code - Authorize Increases to the Affordable Price and Income Limits for Certain Below 
Market Rate Owned Units and Require Amenities to be Resold with Unit. Sponsor: Melgar. Passed First Read 
 
This week 
No Land Use hearing  
 
Full Board 
240727 Planning Code; Zoning Map - New Asia Senior Housing Special Use District - 758 and 772 Pacific 
Avenue. Sponsors: Peskin and Chan. PASSED Second Read 
240802 Planning Code - Authorize Increases to the Affordable Price and Income Limits for Certain Below 
Market Rate Owned Units and Require Amenities to be Resold with Unit. Sponsor: Melgar. PASSED Second 
Read 
Commissioner Williams: 
I just wanted to thank Mr. Starr for your commentary. Thank you. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and among other things considered two legacy 
business registry applications. The first was Lehr’s German Specialties on Church Street and the second was 
Geary Print Shop on Geary Boulevard and adopted recommendation for approval for both.