8. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 11, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 9 
 
None. 
9. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
231216  Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Westwood Park Entrance Gateways and Pillars. Sponsor: 
Melgar. Staff: LaValley 
 
This week the Land Use Committee considered Supervisor Melgar’s landmark designation for the Westwood Park 
Entrance Gateway and Pillars.  
 
Westwood Park Entrance Gateway and Pillars were designed by renowned architect Louis Christian Mullgardt. 
They were constructed in 1916 for developers Baldwin & Howell. The pillars are eligible for local designation for 
association with the development of San Francisco residence parks in the early 20th-century. They are also eligible 
because of their status as excellent examples of landscape features in public rights-of-way common to residence 
park developments, and as instances of work of an architect of merit.  
 
The designation was introduced by Supervisor Melgar and initiated by the Board 5/16/23. The HPC unanimously 
recommended approval 11/15/23. 
 
At the land use hearing, Supervisor Preston expressed concerns about landmarking what he described as 
symbols of exclusion and racial injustice. Westwood Park, like Ingleside Terraces, Richmond Heights, and many 
other residence-park developments, included restrictive covenants dictating what owners could or could not do 
to their lots, as well as who could or could not own, lease, or reside in the neighborhood. These covenants 
included mandating single-family residency, side yard clearances, street setbacks and racial restrictions that 
prohibited non-whites from living or owning a property.  
 
Supervisor Preston indicated that he would not support a positive Committee recommendation, nor would he 
vote yes at full BOS. As a result, the LUT forwarded the item to BOS without recommendation.  
 
Full Board 
 
230704 Planning Code - Fleet Charging Locations and Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsor: Chan. Staff: Delumo. 
PASSED Second Read 
 
230706 Planning Code - Eliminating Public Art Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects. Sponsor: 
Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
 
231033 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Chata Gutierrez Mural. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: LaValley. PASSED 
Second Read 
 
231034 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Carnaval Mural. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: LaValley. PASSED Second 
Read 
 
230863 Planning Code - Exceptions from Limits on Conversion of Production, Distribution and Repair, 
Institutional Community, and Arts Activities Uses in Eastern Neighborhood Plans Areas. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: 
Merlone. PASSED Second Read 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 11, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 9 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Tanner, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board of Appeals 
did meet last night. They only had a few items. And the only one that was somewhat of interest to the Board was 
an appeal of a permit for a state ADU and it was really a scenario where if the project met all the requirements of 
the state law, the City had very low discretion. But to sign off on the permit, it was kind of an educational process 
for the, I think for the neighbor and for some of the board members as well. But ultimately, the appeal was denied 
unanimously and that state ADU was allowed to move forward. Thank you.