13. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Nothing additional except thank you, Commissioner Ruiz. I share the sentiments of your fellow Commissioners. 
It’s sad to see you go, but I know we worked with you before you were on the Commission around group housing 
issues in the Tenderloin and you’ve just got a great knack of kind of taking things that are complex and boiling 
them down to what the impact is on the community, on a neighborhood. So, I know we’ll continue to work with 
you at CCDC. So, thank you for being on the Commission and everything you’ve done here. 
14. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr manager of legislative affairs.  
Land Use Committee 
231045 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Sacred Heart Parish Complex. Sponsor: HPC. Staff: LaValley. 
First on the land use agenda was the Landmark designation for the Sacred Heart Parish Complex. This item 
was initiated by the HPC about 8 years ago on 10/5/2016. The HPC unanimously recommended approval 
9/20/23 of this year. This landmark designation did have some controversy, mainly about what to include in 
the landmark designation and it also includes several buildings adding to the complexity of the designation 
report. This week, Supervisor Preston introduced amendments to the landmark designation that included:  
 
• Adding additional descriptive details to character-defining features. 
• Adding the wood connector bridge to the list of character-defining features; and  
• Adding several interior features of church to list of character-defining features, specifically the choir 
loft and the finishes in the narthex 
 
There were also revisions made to clarify language about “preservation” and “replacement or repair in-kind” 
as well as nod to property owner’s interest in potential future alterations, provided the work is approved by 
HPC. 
Public comments were mixed. Some commentors were past parishioners of this church and lamented that 
the building was no longer the sacred space they had once known, while others spoke approvingly of the 
new life being brought to the building as a roller-skating rink.  
 
Supervisor Preston signed on as sponsor. The amendments were accepted, and the item was continued for 
one week to March 4 as the amendments were substantive.  
 
230808 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family Housing Opportunity 
Special Use District. Sponsors: Melgar; Engardio. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Melgar and Engardio’ s duplicate ordinance to the Family 
Housing Opportunity Special Use District. This version would allow taller buildings on corner lots within the 
RH districts in the FHO SUD. This item was amended last week, and therefore required a continuance. This 
week, Supervisor Melgar made a motion to further amendment the ordinance to add back the one-year 
ownership requirement for single-family homes, and the five-year ownership requirement for multifamily 
homes that had been removed in previous versions. Those amendments were taken and not deemed to be 

San Francisco Planning Commission