10. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None. 
11. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. Welcome to spring and the four-
year anniversary of the start of lockdown.  
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 21, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 7 
 
Land Use Committee 
231225 Planning Code - Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments in North of Market Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Preston. Staff: Melone.  
 
First on the land use committee agenda this week was Supervisor Preston’s ordinance that would modify the 
Tobacco Paraphernalia controls in the NoMa SUD. Specifically, this ordinance would amend the Planning 
Code to require an establishment that sold any amount of Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments in the 
North of Market Special Use District or the NoMa SUD to obtain conditional use authorization. It would also 
establish an 18-month abandonment period for TPEs. The Planning Commission heard this item on February 
8th of this year and voted to approve the ordinance with modifications. 
 
The Commission’s proposed modifications were to: 
1. Make Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments Not Permitted in the North of Market Special Use District. 
2. Expand the controls proposed for the NoMa SUD to also apply to the Lower Polk Street NCD  
3.  Apply ¼ mile buffer for Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishment restrictions to the Lower Polk NCD; and 
4. Investigate shortening the proposed 18-month abandonment period for non-conforming Tobacco 
Paraphernalia Establishments and limiting the hours of operation in the NoMa SUD.   
 
At the hearing, the Supervisor proposed amending the ordinance to make all the Commission’s 
recommended modifications, except for limiting hours of operation. Also, in line with the commission’s 
recommendation the legislation was amended to reduce the abandonment period from 18 months to 180 
days. 
 
At the hearing many community members of the Tenderloin and Polk Street neighborhoods spoke in favor 
of the legislation and the additional amendments. Supervisor Peskin asked to be added as a co-sponsor, and 
the item was continued for one week as the amendments are considered substantive. 
 
231006 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 900 Kearny Street Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores.  
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Peskin’s proposed SUD at 900 Kearny Street. The Planning 
Commission heard this item on November 30, 2023, and recommended approval with a modification. 
 
That modification was to revise the Chinatown-Community Business District Use Size controls to make it 
consistent with the limitations in Section 121.4. 
 
During the hearing, Supervisor Peskin duplicated the file to incorporate the technical correction from the 
Planning Commission. Additionally, the duplicate file was amended to allow the construction of a roof 
structure to be used as an arts studio. This duplicate file is going to be referred to the Planning Commission, 
as you had not considered the rooftop studio. 
 
During the land use hearing, there were no public comments. Once public comment was closed, the original 
board file was sent as a Committee Report to the full Board with positive recommendation. 
 
231221 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey and Melgar. Staff: V. Flores. 
 
Lastly, the land use committee considered the mayor’s ordinance that would Expand Allowable Commercial, 
Restaurant, and Retail Uses. This Ordinance was a duplicate file of BF 230701 that became effective in mid-
January. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 21, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 7 
 
This duplicated Ordinance incorporates additional changes primarily related to LCUs, LCCUs, Outdoor Activity 
Areas, and specific district changes in response to community feedback. The Planning Commission heard this 
duplicated ordinance on February 29th and recommended approval. 
 
During the committee hearing, Supervisor Peskin shared he had been working closely with the Office of Small 
Business but that there were two outstanding items which they did not agree on. The two proposed 
amendments as follows: 
o Amend the LCCU controls to base the use controls on the nearest Neighborhood Commercial District or 
SUD within a ½ mile, or if the use is more than a ¼ mile from the nearest NCD/SUD then base the use 
controls off NC-1 controls. 
o Amend the LCCU controls to permit a maximum use size based on the nearest NCD/SUD, up to a 
maximum of 1,200 sf. 
 
Supervisor Melgar expressed concern over the proposed amendments because they ran counter to Prop H. 
Prop H removed the ¼ mile rule and allowed LCUs and LCCU controls to be dictated by NC-1 zoning controls. 
This change made it easier for businesses to understand the rules, and easier for planners to implement the 
rules. Further, NC-1 districts can be more permissive than some named NCs, where more restrictive controls 
have been adopted. The proposed ½ mile buffer is also more restrictive than the ¼ mile buffer Prop H 
removed.  As such, Supervisor Melgar shared she was not in support of these additional restrictions 
emphasizing the time and effort put into Prop. H. 
 
There was one public comment from a community member representing the Lower Polk CBD, expressing 
support for the ordinance and the specific changes related to the Polk Street NCD. 
 
Supervisor Peskin made a motion to incorporate the amendments to use and use size limits for LCCUs. The 
only change was amending the ½ mile radius to a ¼ mile based on the discussions. 
 
After the amendments were made, the item was continued for one week since the amendments were 
substantive.  
 
Full Board 
 
230310 Various Codes - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. 
PASSED Second Read 
231045 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Sacred Heart Parish Complex. Sponsor: HPC. Staff: LaValley. 
PASSED Second Read 
231185 Planning, Administrative Codes - Conditional Use Authorization for Removal of Unauthorized Unit. 
Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
240070 Planning Code - Exceptions and Extensions for Existing Uses. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Merlone. Passed First Read 
231006 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 900 Kearny Street Special Use District. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: V. Flores. 
Passed First Read 
    Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Zoning Administrator just informed me that the Board of Appeals did not meet yesterday. However, the 
Historic Preservation Commission did, and had a very lengthy hearing actually. They adopted Recommendations 
for Approval for several Legacy Business Registry applicants, the first being Ristorante Ideale on Grant Avenue, 
GFDS Engineers on Green Street, Bay Area Bird and Exotics Hospital on Taraval Street, and A&W Contractors on 
Noriega Street. They also adopted the Citywide Historic Context Statement for the Inner Sunset and then took 
on the Gregangelo Museum landmark designation, which was sponsored by Supervisor Melgar. There was a lot 
of support, a little bit of neighborhood opposition. The Commission ultimately adopted a Resolution 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 21, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 7 
 
recommending Landmark Status for the Gregangelo Museum. It's sort of an interesting landmarking designation 
that's moving forward to the Board of Supervisors. And then, they heard the Waterfront Resilience Program that 
you had heard and also made, submitted their comments as necessary to keep that project moving forward. It 
went so long that we had to continue the last couple of items because we have a hard stop at 4:30 at the Historic 
Preservation Commission, because the Police Commission meets in these chambers after the Historic 
Preservation Commission.