8. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Sucre, Deputy Director of Current Planning: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Rich Sucre, Department staff. The only announcement, and I’ll probably steal a 
little bit of Jonas’ thunder here, is to announce that the Historic Preservation Commission yesterday adopted the 
African American Historic Context Statement. So, this is our first kind of background document recognizing the 
important contributions of African American people to the City and County of San Francisco. So, this was an 11-
year long effort. And so, the HPC unanimously adopted this document. And that concludes our report. Thank you. 
9. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Diamond, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board of Appeals 
did meet last night, and they considered several items, but only one that would be of interest to the Planning 
Commission. Last year, you saw a Discretionary Review case in March, for a building permit at 681 12th Avenue. 
It's a little bit unusual. The proposal was to build a separate, detached, one story structure behind the primary 
structure, but still within the buildable area for a ceramic studio for the homeowner. But just a one-story structure. 
The Planning Commission heard that DR but voted +6 -0 to not take DR and approve as proposed. It was 
appealed, the Planning Department didn't notice that the final permit had changed the material of the roof from 
a solid material to a glass roof. And so, the Planning Department did recommend the Board of Appeals to grant 
the appeal, only to acquire the roof to be changed back to solid materials for issues related to reflection and 
privacy and other issues. And so, the board took the Planning Department's recommendation, and they voted 4 
to 0 to grant the appeal, but still approved the project and require the roof be reverted back to a solid material. 
Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 22, 2024 
Notice of Hearing & Agenda 
Page 4 of 8 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and it's just like Mr. Sucre to steal my thunder. But they 
did adopt the African American Citywide Historic Context Statement. They also considered several Legacy 
Business Registry applications and adopted a recommendation for approval for all of them, specifically San 
Francisco Camerawork at the Fort Mason building, Greens Restaurant, also at the Fort Mason building, 
Everlasting Tattoo on Divisadero Street, Jewelry Collection on Sutter Street, Liguria Bakery on Stockton Street, 
On The Bridge on Webster Street, Progress Cleaners on Fillmore Street, R&G Lounge on Kearny Street. And that 
was all the Legacy Business Registry applications that were considered yesterday. And finally, they heard the 
Expanding Housing Choice Informational Presentation that was made earlier today with a focus on Preservation.  
 
President Diamond: 
I believe Commissioner Moore would like to -- 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Yeah. I would like to ask Mr. Teague, please. I am curious in the ceramic studio, was the glass roof discovered 
after it was being built, after it has been built, or how did that become to people's knowledge? 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
The project was not under construction because the permit was still in the permit process. It was issued and then 
appealed. I believe that it was a revision that happened during the permitting process that had not been noticed, 
after the fact. And it was discovered through the appeal process, and then corrected by the Board of Appeals. 
But no construction had started because the building permit technically, was under appeal.  
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I'm glad to hear that somebody is watching the store and that this was not discovered after it was built. Thank 
you so much. 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Sure.