13. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Hi. Thanks, Jonas. I'm here acting for Director Hillis, who is out of, on vacation this week. I wanted to let you all 
know and share that we're really excited. We wanted to announce our interns. As you know, we always have a 
wonderful Summer Internship Program. And although this year's is a little bit different, it's equally as wonderful. 
We've got 34 Planning interns this summer, and they're all here in attendance. This includes 11 college interns, 
as well as 23 high school interns. Both the college and high school interns are funded almost entirely by OFA, 
which is Opportunities For All, they, along with other partners at Youthworks and Enterprise For Youth, assisted 
in placing all of the interns and are also paying the salary of the interns. And in these tough times, we are very 
grateful for their support of this program. This year, OFA launched a new Color College Internship Program. It's 
part of the Black To San Francisco initiative led by the Human Rights Commission. So nine of our college interns 
this year are from HBCUs, Historically Black Colleges And Universities. The interns come to us from Morehouse, 
Clark, Atlanta, Tuskegee, Fisk, and Denison. We also have an intern from USF  this year. In addition to that core 
group, we also have two other college interns, one from UCLA and one from Cal Poly, who are assisting with 
this with the high school intern program, as you recall, the young planners program or our high school interns, 
it's a program that was created many years ago to empower and educate our local youth about the field and 
career of Planning, which is really exciting that they get to do it in their hometown here. So their final projects 
are wrapping up, and they're going to be presenting on Friday the 26th and all Planning Commissioners, as well 
as our Historic Preservation Commissioners are invited. So just let us know if you'd like to join us. But we wanted 
to welcome them. And maybe if we could have all of our interns stand, do a little wave and hello, but we've got 
a great group. And a big thank you. So we're really excited to have everyone. It's been a great summer. Thanks.   
14. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Audrey Merlone: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Audrey Merlone, Planning staff, here for Aaron Starr. 
 
At Land Use Committee this week, there were two items of interest to the Commission. The first was a resolution 
sponsored by President Peskin, that would impose interim controls requiring Conditional Use authorization for 
a change of use from a Health Service or Social Service to any other use in the Castro Street NCD or Upper Market 
Street NCD. These interim controls are in response to a non-profit mental health clinic located in the Upper 
Market Street NCD that informed President Peskin they are at risk of being evicted. This item had very little 
discussion before it was unanimously approved as a Committee Report. As a reminder: interim controls are not 
referred to the Commission for their review. They are established through resolutions and have an initial active 
period of 18 months from the date they are approved.   
 
The other item of interest was the various amendments associated with the Stonestown Mall project. The 
Planning Commission heard the package of amendments associated with this project on May 9th of this year 
and voted to approve the project pursuant to the Development Agreement that was presented. These items 
were originally at Land Use Committee last week, where there was all around support for the project from both 
the Committee members and the public. A host of clerical amendments were made at that July 8th Committee 
hearing, which necessitated their continuance one week. As such, at Committee this week there was no 
discussion or public comment before the items were unanimously approved as Committee Reports.   

San Francisco Planning Commission