8. 
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None. 
9. 
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioner’s, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
Land Use 
240901 Planning Code - Impact Fees for Changes of Use From Production, Distribution, and Repair to Other 
Non-Residential Uses. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores.  
240872 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 30 Van Ness Avenue Special Use District; Amendment of Agreement 
for Sale of Real Estate. Sponsors: Mayor. Staff: Giacomucci.  
This week at land use the Land Use committee continued two mayoral sponsored ordinances to December 
2. The first ordinance was the Impact Fee Waiver for changes of use from PDR to other uses. The second 
ordinance was the planning code and zoning map amendments for 30 Van Ness. Presumably, the Impact 
Fee ordinance was continued to allow for more community outreach. 30 Van Ness was continued so that 
Supervisor Peskin could refine some additional conditions he wanted to add to the ordinance. 
240879 Planning Code - 524 and 530 Howard Street - Transit Center District Open Space Impact Fee Waiver 
for 524 Howard Street, LLC. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. 
The Committee did take up the Impact Fee waiver for 524-530 Howard Street. Commissioner’s, you heard 
this item on consent on October 24 and voted to recommend approval. At the land use hearing, there was 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 21, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 6 
 
no public comment and no significant comments from the committee members. The item was forwarded 
to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
241063 Planning Code - Authorize Increases to the Affordable Price and Income Limits for Certain Below 
Market Rate Owned Units and Require Amenities to be Resold with Unit. Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: Flores.  
Also on the docket was the duplicated file of Supervisor Melgar’s ordinance that would Authorize Increases 
to the Affordable Price and Income Limits for Certain BMR Units. This ordinance was duplicated at the 
committee so that Supervisor Peskin could add some additional monitoring language to it; however, he was 
able to do this at the Board hearing making the duplicated file unnecessary. As a result, the committee voted 
to table the item. 
Full Board 
There was nothing of note at the Full Board this week. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday, and they considered the Preservation Design 
Standards for the Housing Accountability Act which will be coming to you with their recommendation to adopt. 
They also heard 1035 Howard Street which they continued to December 4th, and depending on their action, will 
come to you on December 5th for your consideration. And then finally, they adopted the Citywide Historic 
Context Statement for Large Apartment Building (1900 – 1978).