7. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
8. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Veronica Flores: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Veronica Flores, filling in for Aaron Starr today.  
 
Land Use Committee 
There were two Planning Department items at the Land Use Committee this week. 
 
240193 Hearing - Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsors: Chan; Dorsey, Stefani, Mandelman, Preston, Melgar and 
Engardio. Staff: Flores. 
 
First up was the Parcel Delivery Service ordinance. This was a follow-up legislation to refine the additional criteria 
for consideration, including the impact of Parcel Delivery Services on educational institutions and the use of 
artificial intelligence and autonomous vehicles. This was placed on your Consent Agenda for April 25th and was 
recommended for approval. During the Committee hearing, there was one public comment in support of the 
proposed Ordinance and there was no Supervisor discussion. The Committee recommended this item with 
positive recommendation as committee report. 
 
240353 Hearing - Landmark Designation - The Gregangelo Museum. Sponsors: Melgar. Staff: LaValley. 
 
Gregangelo Museum is an evolving San Francisco-inspired folk-art piece that possesses high artistic value as an 
immersive visual, performance, and circus arts environment contributing to the unique arts and culture of San 
Francisco. This item appeared before the Historic Preservation Commission on March 20, 2024. During the 
Committee hearing, Supervisors Preston and Peskin joined as co-sponsors. The Committee then forwarded this 
item to the full Board with positive recommendation.  
 
Full Board 
240193 Hearing - Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsors: Chan; Dorsey, Stefani, Mandelman, Preston, Melgar and 
Engardio. Staff: Flores. Passed First Read. 
 
240513 Hearing - Adoption of Findings Related to Disapproval of Conditional Use Authorization - 2351 Mission 
Street. Sponsors: N/A. Staff: Starr. Approved.