9. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Just welcome, Commissioner Williams. I don’t -- he didn’t mention but we had the pleasure as a staff of working 
with you I think a decade ago or maybe a little more on the Excelsior Strategies which I was on the Commission 
when we heard them. I think, Commissioner Moore, you were here. But it was a great collaborative community 
process. So, thank you for your work there and we’re looking forward to working with you in the future here on 
the Commission. So, welcome. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 14, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 9 
 
Commissioner Williams: 
Thank you. 
10. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Veronica Flores: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Veronica Flores filling in for Aaron Starr manager of Legislative Affairs  
 
Land Use Committee 
230310 Various Codes - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. 
The first item of the land use committee agenda was the amendments to the state mandated ADU controls. 
As reported last week, this item was amended and continued for one week since the amendments were 
substantive. This week, there was no public comment and no questions or comments from the committee 
members. The committee voted to forward the item as a committee report to the Full Board with a positive 
recommendation.  
 
240070 Planning Code - Exceptions and Extensions for Existing Uses. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Merlone.  
Next the committee considered the Planning Commission sponsored ordinance entitled Exceptions and 
Extensions for Existing Uses, also known at the planning department as the oops ordinance. This ordinance 
would amend the Planning Code to modify offset requirement for heights in the Bernal Heights Special Use 
District; permit large movie theater signage in the Japantown Neighborhood Commercial District; allow 
Medical Cannabis Dispensaries to continue operating as Temporary Cannabis Retail Uses until December 31, 
2024; and clarify eligibility for reduction in Inclusionary Housing requirements. These amendments are 
intended to either legalize previously permitted work by the planning department or correct errors in the 
code.  
 
During the committee hearing there was no public comment and no comments from the committee 
members. The item was then forwarded to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
Thus, ending the Land Use Committee hearing after about 8 minutes.  
 
Full Board 
231258 Planning Code - Housing Production. Sponsors: Mayor; Melgar. Staff: Starr. PASSED Second Read 
240169 Planning Code - Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsors: Chan. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
230808 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family and Senior Housing 
Opportunity Special Use District. Sponsors: Melgar; Engardio. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
231256 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Potrero Yard Special Use District. Sponsors: Ronen; Walton. Staff: 
Snyder. PASSED Second Read 
240047 General Plan - Potrero Bus Yard Project. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Snyder. PASSED 
Second Read 
231045 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Sacred Heart Parish Complex. Sponsor: HPC. Staff: LaValley. 
Passed First Read 
231185 Planning, Administrative Codes - Conditional Use Authorization for Removal of Unauthorized Unit. 
Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read 
230310 Various Codes - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. 
Passed First Read 
240171 Presidential Appointment, Planning Commission - Gilbert Williams. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: Ionin. 
Adopted 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 14, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 9 
 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Diamond, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. Welcome, 
Commissioner Williams. The Board of Appeals did meet last night and they took action on one item of interest to 
the Planning Commission. Again, this is the Great Highway Pilot Program, the closure on Fridays and weekends. 
Planning Commission approved the coastal permit for that pilot project back in November. That was appealed. 
Three separate appellants to the Board of Appeals and that was heard in February. Ultimately, the Board voted 
to deny those appeals of that coastal permit. However, the same three appellants also filed rehearing requests 
to the Board of Appeals, which is a process through the Board where if kind of new information that could have 
changed the outcome is presented or if there’s the possibility of kind of manifest injustice, the Board can choose 
to hold a new hearing on the appeal. All of the arguments from the appellants for the rehearing say for one were 
dismissed. The one issue that was kind of considered by many of the Commissioners was information within the 
San Francisco Estuary Institute’s report and kind of best management practices for the beach area and the dune 
system. Even though that report was out and available at the time of the appeal hearing and was referenced, a 
couple of the Commissioners had concerns with the way it had been discussed and the lack of information that 
had been provided. To grant a rehearing request, it requires four of the five Commissioners to vote for that and 
ultimately upon a motion to grant the rehearing request that only received three votes. And so, that vote failed 
and the rehearing requests were all denied. So, that matter is completely settled at the Board of Appeals and 
that coastal permit for the pilot program is officially approved. Thank you.