5. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just a calendar update. One, thank you for the hearing last week on the Housing 
Element Implementation and Rezoning, obviously. And thank you for the public who came out to testify. There's 
been a lot of interest in that since too and requests for meetings with our team from neighborhood groups. So, 
we will push out the next hearing just to give us enough time to have some of those meetings and have meetings 
with supervisors and come back to you with kind of updates from those meetings. So likely, I think we talked 
about February 22nd as the next hearing on Housing Element Implementation and Rezoning. We're likely to 
push that to early mid-March, just FYI. On the Affordable Housing and the report regarding funding for 
Affordable Housing and the Affordable Housing Leadership Council's recommendations, we still plan on having 
that in February, I think the last meeting, February 29th. So, that'll stay on the calendar, and we'll likely push out 
the rezoning hearings to early mid-March. 
 
President Diamond: 
And the consideration of the adoption of the resolution that Commissioner Ruiz discussed. That's February 29th 
as well, too.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah, although we talked, the Board has passed a resolution already, kind of doing the same thing. So, we should 
just discuss whether that's needed at this point, because we would have likely urged the Board and the Mayor 
to take that position. They've already taken that position, requesting that the state maintain funding for 
affordable housing.  
 
Commissioner Ruiz: 
Yeah. Regarding the resolution at the Board, because I had discussed this with some community members who 
were concerned about the cuts to affordable housing, and then I referenced the resolution. It seems like that 
seems sufficient. And so I don't know what direction the Commission wants to take other than acknowledging 
that resolution. I don't know if we adopt that resolution as well. I’m not sure what the procedures are.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. I mean, normally our resolution would be to urge them. So I think it's kind of taken care of. But we'll get 
into the details of those specific items, regarding state funding and federal funding and local funding. So you'll 
have the ability to opine and then if there's a desire to do something, additional resolutions, etc., we can certainly 
do that. But I’d suggest having that hearing first. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Could you share the transcript of that particular resolution with us? 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Sure. 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
That would be very helpful. I did not attend the meeting. 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission