10. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Congratulations, Commissioner So. I’ll just let the Commission know how we work with officers too because 
some some of you may not know is every two weeks, generally we'll have an officer's meeting, that I think have 
been successful and productive and those will continue but it's with the both the president and vice president. 
So, we look forward to continuing those to talk about what's on the agenda and how we tackle some of the 
major issues we have. So, looking forward to continuing that with Vice President Moore and with the President 
So. 
Commissioner Moore: 
So, just to support Director Hillis said the officers meetings are indeed attended by both the Vice President and 
the President. And in the end, it doesn't really matter. It is not about position, it is about participating. So I see 
the support that both officers have given in the past will continue to be equally effective. And I do appreciate 
Director Hillis’ explanation to that. So we will charge forward and do what we all need to do. Thank you. 
11. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs.  
This week the land use committee considered Supervisor Mandelman’s ordinance that would expand the 
Central Neighborhoods Large Home SUD and delete the Corona Heights SUD the area of which would be added 
to the Central Neighborhoods SUD.  
Commissioners, you heard this item on August 1, 2024, recommendation for approval with modifications.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 19, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 9 
 
1. Do not include accessory garage space in the calculation of Gross Floor Area (GFA). This was originally 
included to encourage people to use existing garage space to expand their homes; however, it has been 
used by some applicants as a loophole to obtain more space.; and  
2. Specify that for the purposes of calculating a unit’s Gross Square Footage (GSF) in multi-unit buildings, 
shared spaces shall not be included. 
During the hearing, supervisor Mandelman asked the committee to add the two recommended planning 
commission amendments, which the committee did. There was only one public commentor, Georgia Schuttish, 
and no significant comments or questions form the committee members. 
Supervisor Mandelman then proposed continuing the item to the call of the chair so that this ordinance could 
be paired with an upzoning. While he did not believe this was a downzoning, he proposed the continuance out 
of caution. As a result, it’s not clear when this ordinance will go into effect, but it won’t be until at least 2025. 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Thank you, Mr. Starr. I don’t have a report from the Board of Appeals. I don’t know if the Zoning Administrator 
is here but the Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and among other items considered several 
Legacy Business Registry applications and adopted recommendations of approval for all of them. The first being, 
Fabrix on Clement Street, Treasure Island Museum on Treasure Island, the Ten-Ichi Japanese Restaurant and 
Sushi Bar on Fillmore Street, the New India Bazar on Polk Street, and Sabella and La Torre on Taylor Street. 
Commissioner Moore: 
I have a question if Mr. Starr could quickly answer that. In the case that a piece of legislation gets basically 
continued to be potentially adjusted, which legislation is in effect in the interim? 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Whatever is in the code currently. So, the Constraints Reduction Ordinance added a sunset provision for the 
Central Neighborhood SUD and the Corona Heights SUD to get rid of the CU and place the 3,000 square foot 
cap in those districts. So, that’s going to happen on January 1st but the expansion of it won’t happen until 
upzoning comes along. 
Commissioner Moore: 
Okay, thank you just for explaining that [inaudible]. Appreciate it.