13.  DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Great. Thank you. Commissioners. Thank you, President Tanner and now, Director Tanner. We share your 
excitement. I mean, your regret that she's leaving the Commission and the thoughtfulness in leadership you 
brought to this Commission, but excited to have that as part of our staff team. Instead of six hours a week we 
kind of get it 40 hours a week so that's exciting. Because she really does bring everything - leadership, 
thoughtfulness, how she works with the community, technical knowledge, it's really everything. So, we are very 
excited at the staff level. And I just wanted to also thank Josh Switzky in our Citywide team, who've really kind of 
made this transition seamless. After AnMarie left, I mean, you've seen them here talking about the rezoning, but 
on sea level rise and in, transportation element and all other issues. You know we continue to advance that work 
and Rachael will do the same. So we're excited about that. Just a note on the, you know, the rezoning came up, 
and we will be before you next week. We've got an informational hearing. So Commissioner Moore, happy to 
kind of dive deeper into some of the questions you had. We'll have a follow up also in February. So we expect to 
have two informational hearings in February on the rezoning proposal so we can get into depth on those. Likely 
another informational and or a kind of approval hearing in March but that's to be determined. We want to get 
through those hearings in February and get your feedback and the public's feedback. So, looking forward to 
more discussion on that.  
 
Vice President Moore: 
Thank you. 
 
14.  REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
231144 Planning, Administrative Codes - Code Corrections Ordinance. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Merlone. 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners Aaron Starr manager of legislative affairs. This week the Land Use 
committee considered this Commission’s code corrections ordinance. You passed this ordinance last year on 
September 28. As you probably recall the code corrections ordinance is intended to correct errors in the code, 
that usually come about from previous ordinances.  This ordinance will fix issues like grammatical errors, 
unintentional cross-references and accidental additions and deletions that undermine the legitimacy and 
enforceability of the Planning Code. 
 
During the hearing, Planning staff informed that committee members that amendments are required to the 
proposed ordinance because of recent changes to the code; however, those amendments were not yet 
drafted to form. After going over the types of amendments we intended to introduce, staff asked the 
commission to continue the item for one week so that the amendments could be drafted. There was no public 
comment, and the Committee then voted to continue the item for one week.  
 
230310 Planning Code - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Flores. 
 
Next, the committee considered another item you voted to pass on September 28th of last year, the state 
ADU ordinance sponsored by the mayor. As a reminder, this round of ADU legislation is to make our code 
consistent with state law. This covers new bills, which were effective beginning