13. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Elizabeth Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Hi. Thanks, Jonas. I'm here acting for Director Hillis, who is out of, on vacation this week. I wanted to let you all 
know and share that we're really excited. We wanted to announce our interns. As you know, we always have a 
wonderful Summer Internship Program. And although this year's is a little bit different, it's equally as wonderful. 
We've got 34 Planning interns this summer, and they're all here in attendance. This includes 11 college interns, 
as well as 23 high school interns. Both the college and high school interns are funded almost entirely by OFA, 
which is Opportunities For All, they, along with other partners at Youthworks and Enterprise For Youth, assisted 
in placing all of the interns and are also paying the salary of the interns. And in these tough times, we are very 
grateful for their support of this program. This year, OFA launched a new Color College Internship Program. It's 
part of the Black To San Francisco initiative led by the Human Rights Commission. So nine of our college interns 
this year are from HBCUs, Historically Black Colleges And Universities. The interns come to us from Morehouse, 
Clark, Atlanta, Tuskegee, Fisk, and Denison. We also have an intern from USF  this year. In addition to that core 
group, we also have two other college interns, one from UCLA and one from Cal Poly, who are assisting with 
this with the high school intern program, as you recall, the young planners program or our high school interns, 
it's a program that was created many years ago to empower and educate our local youth about the field and 
career of Planning, which is really exciting that they get to do it in their hometown here. So their final projects 
are wrapping up, and they're going to be presenting on Friday the 26th and all Planning Commissioners, as well 
as our Historic Preservation Commissioners are invited. So just let us know if you'd like to join us. But we wanted 
to welcome them. And maybe if we could have all of our interns stand, do a little wave and hello, but we've got 
a great group. And a big thank you. So we're really excited to have everyone. It's been a great summer. Thanks.   
14. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Audrey Merlone: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Audrey Merlone, Planning staff, here for Aaron Starr. 
 
At Land Use Committee this week, there were two items of interest to the Commission. The first was a resolution 
sponsored by President Peskin, that would impose interim controls requiring Conditional Use authorization for 
a change of use from a Health Service or Social Service to any other use in the Castro Street NCD or Upper Market 
Street NCD. These interim controls are in response to a non-profit mental health clinic located in the Upper 
Market Street NCD that informed President Peskin they are at risk of being evicted. This item had very little 
discussion before it was unanimously approved as a Committee Report. As a reminder: interim controls are not 
referred to the Commission for their review. They are established through resolutions and have an initial active 
period of 18 months from the date they are approved.   
 
The other item of interest was the various amendments associated with the Stonestown Mall project. The 
Planning Commission heard the package of amendments associated with this project on May 9th of this year 
and voted to approve the project pursuant to the Development Agreement that was presented. These items 
were originally at Land Use Committee last week, where there was all around support for the project from both 
the Committee members and the public. A host of clerical amendments were made at that July 8th Committee 
hearing, which necessitated their continuance one week. As such, at Committee this week there was no 
discussion or public comment before the items were unanimously approved as Committee Reports.   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, July 18, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 9 
 
 
At the Full Board this week, the various applications associated with the Stonestown project passed their first 
read, the interim controls for health and social services were adopted, and the Planning Code and Zoning Map 
amendments for 135 Kissling Street passed their final read.   
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Good afternoon, President Diamond, Commissioners. Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator. The Board of 
Appeals did meet last night and they had two items on their agenda of interest to the Commission. The first was 
the coastal permit appeal for the Irish Cultural Center on 47th Avenue. Although that ultimately was continued 
to October 9th, so they didn't make a final decision on that last night. The other item was a building permit for 
the property at 363 Jersey Street and a very kind of unique scenario in history. That was a building permit for 
the addition, the expansion of a single family home. The project had originally proposed to add a second unit. 
There was a DR, it was never actually heard. It was on Consent, but it was always two units. That permit was 
ultimately appealed with the Board of Appeals, more on structural foundation grounds, but a special conditions 
permit was also issued for two units. Unfortunately the project was actually built out as only one unit and 
received a CFC as one unit. And so, the second unit was never actually constructed. The property was sold and 
then sold again to its current owner, and during the second sales period, a member of the public noticed that it 
was marketed as one unit and not two. There was a complaint. We went through the enforcement process. The 
new owner was surprised to find out that the single family home they bought had actually been permitted for 
two units. Because the original permit to add the second unit had gone to the Board of Appeals and they had, 
granted the appeal and made changes to that permit, we had to deny that permit so that they could appeal to 
go back to the Board of Appeals. The property owners request that permit was to legalize the existing condition 
as a single family home, as opposed to add the second unit. So there was an interesting discussion there. I think 
everyone kind of was on the same page that it was a very unfortunate situation, and then that clearly the 
Department's position was that on the whole, we'd rather have the unit, but we recognize the challenge that 
the current owner was in, and the Board ultimately voted unanimously to grant the appeal and have the permit 
issued to legalize it as a single family home, basically on the grounds that the existing property owner, in good 
faith, purchased it as a single family home and was not responsible. But they did express a lot of concern as 
specifically with DBI on how the building had been able to be built out and obtain a CFC as a single family home 
when the permit was intended to add a second unit. But that concludes my report. 
President Diamond: 
Question on that: are there currently procedures in place that would preclude DBI from doing that?  
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
Well, I think the standard procedures of ensuring that a project is built out as the permit calls for, I don't know if 
there's any extra procedures beyond that. I do know that that is a conversation we're going to be having, 
because of this case, because the Board of Appeal is very specifically, requested that Planning and DBI look into 
what can be done to help ensure that these, don't happen. There was public comment about the fact that this 
type of situation or a similar situation where the second unit is technically provided but substandard kitchen, 
not really, you know, not really a second unit is a potentially a larger issue, and there should be more, more ways 
to be able to keep that in check. So, I think that would be a continuing conversation. But I'm not aware of any 
specific procedures at DBI, to ensure that a, you know, other than the standard procedures to ensure something 
is built out, the way it was permitted.  
Commissioner Moore: 
Since this item is not particularly calendared, could we perhaps have a discussion about that subject matter in 
the future? I called Ms. Watty just the other day, not going into detail, asking a similar question on a related 
project. And I think it's time for us all to really pull together, including real estate disclosures, etc. I think if we do 
want to really protect the existing unit count, we need to do better than what we're hearing here, and perhaps 
we could schedule a meeting to go into more depth with each other about that. Thank you. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, July 18, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 9 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Historic Preservation Commission did meet yesterday and adopted recommendations for approval for a 
number of Legacy Business Registry applications - the first being Bissap Baobab on Mission Street, Christopher's 
Books on 18th Street, The Fly Trap on Folsom Street, Lien Ying Tai Chi Chuan Academy on Walter U. Lum Place, 
Rocco's Cafe on Folsom Street, The Ramp on Terry A. Francois Boulevard, Java Beach Cafe on La Playa, Gallery 
444 on Post and last but not least, El Faro on Folsom Street. Additionally, they adopted the Counterculture 
Historic Context Statement and heard an Informational Presentation on modifications being proposed for the 
Ferry Building.