11. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None.  
12. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr manager of legislative affairs. 
Land Use Committee  
240909 Interim Zoning Controls - Legacy Businesses in Neighborhood Commercial Districts. Sponsors: 
Peskin; Chan, Preston, Walton and Ronen.  
This week the land use committee considered interim controls sponsored by Supervisor Peskin.  
The proposed interim controls would require conditional use authorization when any new Non-Residential 
Use takes over a space where the immediately prior use was a Legacy Business. The controls have two 
exemptions: 
1. When the subject non-residential space has had no occupant and has not been open to the public 
for three or more years from the date the application for the new use is filed, or  
2. When the Legacy Business been removed from the Legacy Business Registry. 
3. These interim controls apply to all NC Districts as well as the Chinatown Mixed Use Districts. They would 
be in effect for 18 months.  
During the hearing, Supervisor Peskin stated that he introduced these interim controls to help protect 
legacy business from displacement particularly in response to the proposed state mandated upzoning. The 
Supervisor believes that the upzoning along commercial corridors could displace hundreds of legacy 
businesses. 
During the hearing about 11 people all spoke in favor of the ordinance. No one spoke in opposition.  
After public comment, Supervisor Preston expressed his concern that Planning wasn’t bringing this idea 
forward. He said the Planning Department was moving forward with the rezoning with “reckless disregard 
for known risks.”  
Supervisor Melgar added herself as a cosponsor and stated that she wants the city to investigate these 
controls for not just legacy businesses but all small businesses. 
The item was forward to the Full Board with a positive recommendation as a committee report.  
Board of Supervisors 
240806 Public Works Code, Planning Code - Fee Waiver for Vicha Ratanapakdee Mosaic Stairway. Sponsor: 
Stefani. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 
231268 Planning Code - Eliminating Public Art Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects. Sponsor: 
Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. Passed First Read 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 24, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 10 
 
240909 Interim Zoning Controls - Legacy Businesses in Neighborhood Commercial Districts. Sponsors: 
Peskin; Chan, Preston, Walton and Ronen. Adopted