8. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None. 
9. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
Land Use Committee  
240806 Public Works Code, Planning Code - Fee Waiver for Vicha Ratanapakdee Mosaic Stairway] Sponsor: 
Stefani. Staff: Merlone. 
 
This week the Land Use Committee considered an ordinance sponsored by Supervisor Stefani that would Waiver 
Planning and DPW fees for Vicha Ratanapakdee Mosaic Stairway.  
Commissioners, you heard this item on consent on September 26, 2024, and recommended approval.   
During the hearing Supervisor Stefani’s aide presented the item. He proposed a few non substantive 
amendments that were accepted by the Committee.  
There was no public comment and no significant comments from the committee members. Chair Melgar made 
amotion to move the item to the full board with a positive recommendation, which passed unanimously.  
 
231268 Planning Code - Eliminating Public Art Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects] Sponsor: 
Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. Item 5 
 
Next the committee considered Supervisor Dorsey’s ordinance that would Eliminate the 1% Public Art 
Requirement for 100% Affordable Housing Projects.  
Commissioners you heard this item in November of last year and recommended approve with amendments. 
Those amendments have already been made in a duplicated, more narrowly tailer ordinance that has already 
passed. That ordinance allowed existing art at 100% affordable housing projects to be removed.  
Just a quick reminder. The 1% for art requirement for housing only exists in the C-3 zoning district. Very few 100% 
affordable housing projects get built in the downtown area, but some have, and this art requirement has caused 
issues with ongoing maintenance. It also increased the cost to build these projects.  
Also, as part of our Housing Element, the city pledged to remove this requirement, and HCD included this item 
in its Policies and Practices Review letter. Removing this requirement does not prohibit affordable housing 
projects from including art, it’s just removing the planning code requirement.  
During the hearing Madison Tam from Supervisor Dorsey office presented the item to the committee. Ms. Tam 
proposed amendments to take out portions of the ordinance that were already adopted in the duplicated 
ordinance. These amendments were taken unanimously.  
There were two public commentors both representing the nonprofit housing developer community, one 
commentor was in support of the proposed ordinance and one was against the ordnance. Supervisor Melgar 
spoke on the importance of making attractive affordable housing and the need to support our nonprofit 
developers in doing this. There were no other comments from the committee members. Melgar suggested that 
the item be forwarded without a recommendation based on feedback from Supervisor Peskin. This motion 
passed unanimously.  
 
Full Board 
 
240438 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Establishing the 555 9th Street Special Sign District. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: 
V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 

San Francisco Planning Commission