13.  DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Great. Thank you. Commissioners. Thank you, President Tanner and now, Director Tanner. We share your 
excitement. I mean, your regret that she's leaving the Commission and the thoughtfulness in leadership you 
brought to this Commission, but excited to have that as part of our staff team. Instead of six hours a week we 
kind of get it 40 hours a week so that's exciting. Because she really does bring everything - leadership, 
thoughtfulness, how she works with the community, technical knowledge, it's really everything. So, we are very 
excited at the staff level. And I just wanted to also thank Josh Switzky in our Citywide team, who've really kind of 
made this transition seamless. After AnMarie left, I mean, you've seen them here talking about the rezoning, but 
on sea level rise and in, transportation element and all other issues. You know we continue to advance that work 
and Rachael will do the same. So we're excited about that. Just a note on the, you know, the rezoning came up, 
and we will be before you next week. We've got an informational hearing. So Commissioner Moore, happy to 
kind of dive deeper into some of the questions you had. We'll have a follow up also in February. So we expect to 
have two informational hearings in February on the rezoning proposal so we can get into depth on those. Likely 
another informational and or a kind of approval hearing in March but that's to be determined. We want to get 
through those hearings in February and get your feedback and the public's feedback. So, looking forward to 
more discussion on that.  
 
Vice President Moore: 
Thank you. 
 
14.  REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
231144 Planning, Administrative Codes - Code Corrections Ordinance. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Merlone. 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners Aaron Starr manager of legislative affairs. This week the Land Use 
committee considered this Commission’s code corrections ordinance. You passed this ordinance last year on 
September 28. As you probably recall the code corrections ordinance is intended to correct errors in the code, 
that usually come about from previous ordinances.  This ordinance will fix issues like grammatical errors, 
unintentional cross-references and accidental additions and deletions that undermine the legitimacy and 
enforceability of the Planning Code. 
 
During the hearing, Planning staff informed that committee members that amendments are required to the 
proposed ordinance because of recent changes to the code; however, those amendments were not yet 
drafted to form. After going over the types of amendments we intended to introduce, staff asked the 
commission to continue the item for one week so that the amendments could be drafted. There was no public 
comment, and the Committee then voted to continue the item for one week.  
 
230310 Planning Code - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Flores. 
 
Next, the committee considered another item you voted to pass on September 28th of last year, the state 
ADU ordinance sponsored by the mayor. As a reminder, this round of ADU legislation is to make our code 
consistent with state law. This covers new bills, which were effective beginning January 1, 2023. There will 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 13 
 
be another ordinance to bring the code into compliance with changes effective 1/1/24. It also gives the ADU 
program a new section in the Code and responds to comments provided by HCD.  
 
During the hearing, Peskin inquired if other bills effective January 1, 2024 could be incorporated into this 
legislation. He also asked additional amendments be included including retaining the existing noticing 
requirement and expand the historic resource protections to include all known historic resources. Lastly, 
Peskin emphasized wanting to make future legislation support more rent-controlled units under our Local 
ADU Program. 
 
Melgar had questions about the review timeline for the Local ADU Program was, and how it compared to the 
state program review timeline. During public comment, Ryan Patterson representing Yes in My Backyard, 
expressed concern about the reduction in allowable square footage for ADUs stating he believed it was 
contrary to SB330. 
 
After public comment, the committee continued the item for two weeks to February 5th. 
 
231258 Planning Code - Housing Production. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr. 
 
Next the Committee considered one of the duplicated versions of the Constraints Reduction Ordinance. The 
purpose of this ordinance is to amend the language in Section 311 to respond to recent state legislation, and 
to possibly add 311 notification requirements in Chinatown. There were several amendments that needed 
to be added to this ordinance, both from the department and Supervisor Peskin’s office.  As the amendments 
were not drafted and it wasn’t clear whether adding 311 notification to Chinatown was what the community 
wanted the item was continue do the call of the chair. It’s anticipated that the item will be back in two weeks. 
 
Full Board 
 
231216  Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Westwood Park Entrance Gateways and Pillars. Sponsor: 
Melgar. Staff: LaValley. Passed First Read on a 10-1 vote with Preston voting no 
 
231285 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - Proposed 2395 
Sacramento Street Project. Continued to February 6, 2024. 
 
Vice President Moore: 
I have a question. Would you remind us, please, what 2395 Sacramento Street was? It's a number doesn't at the 
moment doesn't ring a bell. 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
I can chime in. It was the, I forget the technical name but it, it was previously used as a library. At one point in 
time, it was part of the CPMC Pacific campus. It was sold off-- 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Franklin.  
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
It is on the corner of Sacramento and Webster-- 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Near CPMC. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 25, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 11 of 13 
 
Liz Watty, Director of Current Planning: 
Yeah, across the street from CPMC.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Near the former CPMC. 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Oh, okay.  
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Yeah. It didn't come to us, though. It went to HPC because of the CofA. 
 
Vice President Moore: 
Thanks.