5. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None.  
6. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
Land Use  
This week the land use committee considered the Establishment the 555 9th Street Special Sign District, 
sponsored by Supervisor Dorsey 
The proposed Ordinance would amend the Planning Code and Zoning Map to create a special sign district at 
555 9th. The Ordinance models the sign regulations after the C-3 zoning district with two exceptions: 1) 
allowing additional wall signs on the second story facing the internal parking lot and 2) video signs up to a 
certain size and distance from the pedestrian entrances.  
The Commission heard this item on July 18th and adopted a recommendation for approval. During the 
hearing, Commissioners expressed concerns with impacts of illuminated signs on adjacent residences. 
As a result, Supervisor Dorsey amended the draft Ordinance based on this feedback. The amendment would 
only allow signs to be illuminated during business hours. 
During the hearing, there were no public comments or Committee discussion. The proposed Ordinance was 
amended and recommended as amended to the full Board. 
 
Full Board  
At the Full Bord this week, the Board considered the CEQA Appeal of the General Plan Evaluation- otherwise 
known as a GPE- for 700 Indiana Street. 
The project would demolish the existing vacant commercial storage building and constructing a new three-
story laboratory with approximately 72,000 square feet. The Planning Commission heard this item on June 
13, 2024, and approved the project’s Large Project Authorization and Shadow Findings on Esprit Park. 
The appellants were members of the Potrero Boosters Neighborhood Association and Dogpatch 
Neighborhood Association. Their primary objection was to the department’s issuance of a GPE and their 
concern over the project description, and quality, shadow, and hazardous material impacts.  
The department clarified the GPE’s project description provides enough detail sufficient for evaluation of 
environmental impacts. The department also appropriately revised the project’s mitigation measure 
regarding toxic air contaminants, as allowed by CEQA. Further the department made clear additional analysis 
of shadow done after the issuance of the GPE did not violate CEQA. This is because its findings were consistent 
with the GPE’s conclusion of less than significant.  And the Eastern Neighborhoods Area Plan EIR, of which 
the GPE is based, appropriately analyzed laboratory and biotechnical uses for hazardous materials. Staff also 
spoke about a recent case in San Diego that emphasized CEQA-Guidelines mandate for streamlining 
environmental review.  

San Francisco Planning Commission