10. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None.  
11. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
240169 Planning Code - Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsors: Chan. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
This week the Land Use committee considered the duplicated version of the Parcel Delivery Service ordinance 
sponsored by Supervisor Chan. The purpose of this duplicated ordinance is to add a retroactive date to the 
original parcel delivery service ordinance. Originally that date was March 9; however, since the interim 
controls end on March 30th, Supervisor Peskin amended the retroactive date to be March 30. After it was 
amended, the ordinance was forwarded to the full board with a positive recommendation.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 7, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 8 
 
231185 Planning, Administrative Codes - Conditional Use Authorization for Removal of Unauthorized Unit. 
Sponsor: Melgar. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Next the Land Use Committee considered Supervisor Melgar’s ordinance that would amend the CU 
requirements for the removal of unauthorized dwelling units, or UDUs.  
 
Specifically, the Ordinance would create a new CUA exemption for single-family homes removing a UDU if 
the UDU has not been rented in the last 10 years. Additionally, the property owner must currently reside in 
the primary unit and confirm they intend to reside there for at least three years after the UDU is removed.  
 
Lastly, the property owner would need to enter into a Regulatory Agreement subjecting the single-family 
home to the price increase limitations of the Rent Ordinance.  
 
The Ordinance would also waive the CUA for proposed UDU removals when the unauthorized dwelling unit 
does not currently meet the open space or Dwelling Unit exposure requirements of the Planning Code or the 
minimum floor-to-ceiling height requirement of the Housing Code.  
 
Lastly, the proposed Ordinance refines the UDU removal findings to only consider the UDU’s tenant and 
eviction history from the past 10 years. 
 
The Planning Commission heard this item on November 14, 2023, during which time you recommended 
approval with modification. The modifications are:  
1. Amend the open space and dwelling unit exposure CU exemptions so that projects are exempted if 
the only path to legalize is through a Variance.  
2. Amend the floor-to-ceiling height CU exemption to only apply if the UDU does not meet the 
minimum floor-to-ceiling height and minimum unit size per Housing Code.  
 
During the land us hearing, Supervisor Melgar made a motion to add the Planning Commission’s 
recommendations to the ordinance. This motion passed unanimously. Supervisor Peskin then asked to be 
added as a sponsor. 
 
There were two people who spoke during public comment, both expressing concern of the ordinance. After 
public comment the committee forwarded the amended ordinance to the full board with a positive 
recommendation. 
 
231045 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Sacred Heart Parish Complex. Sponsor: HPC. Staff: LaValley.  
 
Next the Committee concerned the landmark designation of the Sacred Heart Church, located at 546-548 
Fillmore Street. This item was amended and continued last week. This week, during public comment there 
were several people who spoke about the need to include artwork by a well-known Italian artist painted on 
the church ceiling and walls in the designation report. In response, Supervisor Preston duplicated the 
ordinance after public comment to leave open the possibility of amending the designation report. The 
original item was then forwarded to the full board with a positive recommendation and the duplicated 
ordinance was then continued to the call of the chair.  
 
230310 Various Codes - State-Mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit Controls. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Next the Committee considered the ordinance to amend the state ADU controls in the Planning Code. 
Commissioners you considered this item last week as a consent item and voted to recommend approval with 
the recommendation to: 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 7, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 8 
 
1. Clarify that ADUs built within Article 10 or Article 11 individual landmarks or in a Historic or 
Conservation district trigger the notification requirements of Article 10 and Article 11 and not 
Section 311. ( 
2. Retain the existing 311, Article 10, and Article 11 notification requirements for ADUs.  
 
During the hearing Planning Staff read the proposed amendments into the record and requested that the 
Board incorporate them into the ordinance. This action was done by the committee. The item was then 
continued for one week because the proposed amendments were deemed substantive.  
 
230734 Planning Code - Density Calculation in RC, RTO, NC, and Certain Named NCDs. Sponsors: Mayor. Staff: 
Merlone. 
 
Lastly the Committee considered the mayor’s ordinance to use form-based density in the city’s NC, RC, and 
RTO Districts. This item has been continued several times. This week Supervisor Peskin proposed 
amendments that would prohibit the use of the State Density Bonus with form-based density in these 
districts and require any bonus units be rent controlled. As these amendments were not considered by this 
commission, the item had to be referred back to the planning commission. So, Commissioners you will have 
the opportunity to weigh in on these amendments in the near future.  
 
Full Board 
 
231223 Planning Code - Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsor: Chan. Staff: Flores. PASSED Second Read 
231257 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Grand Theater. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: La Valley. Passed 
Second Read 
231079 Planning Code - Planning Code - Density Controls in Three Historic Districts. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: 
Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
231080 Planning Code - Fleet Charging. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
230808 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family Housing Opportunity 
Special Use District. Sponsors: Melgar; Engardio. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read 
231256 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Potrero Yard Special Use District. Sponsors: Ronen; Walton. Staff: 
Snyder. Passed First Read 
240047 General Plan - Potrero Bus Yard Project. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Snyder. Passed First 
Read 
231187 Hearing - Appeal of Tentative Parcel Map Approval - 1365-1371 York Street. Staff: Starr. Items 33-36 
This appeal was withdrawn. 
240169 Planning Code - Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsors: Chan. Staff: V. Flores. Passed First Read