13. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Nothing additional except thank you, Commissioner Ruiz. I share the sentiments of your fellow Commissioners. 
It’s sad to see you go, but I know we worked with you before you were on the Commission around group housing 
issues in the Tenderloin and you’ve just got a great knack of kind of taking things that are complex and boiling 
them down to what the impact is on the community, on a neighborhood. So, I know we’ll continue to work with 
you at CCDC. So, thank you for being on the Commission and everything you’ve done here. 
14. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr manager of legislative affairs.  
Land Use Committee 
231045 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Sacred Heart Parish Complex. Sponsor: HPC. Staff: LaValley. 
First on the land use agenda was the Landmark designation for the Sacred Heart Parish Complex. This item 
was initiated by the HPC about 8 years ago on 10/5/2016. The HPC unanimously recommended approval 
9/20/23 of this year. This landmark designation did have some controversy, mainly about what to include in 
the landmark designation and it also includes several buildings adding to the complexity of the designation 
report. This week, Supervisor Preston introduced amendments to the landmark designation that included:  
 
• Adding additional descriptive details to character-defining features. 
• Adding the wood connector bridge to the list of character-defining features; and  
• Adding several interior features of church to list of character-defining features, specifically the choir 
loft and the finishes in the narthex 
 
There were also revisions made to clarify language about “preservation” and “replacement or repair in-kind” 
as well as nod to property owner’s interest in potential future alterations, provided the work is approved by 
HPC. 
Public comments were mixed. Some commentors were past parishioners of this church and lamented that 
the building was no longer the sacred space they had once known, while others spoke approvingly of the 
new life being brought to the building as a roller-skating rink.  
 
Supervisor Preston signed on as sponsor. The amendments were accepted, and the item was continued for 
one week to March 4 as the amendments were substantive.  
 
230808 Planning, Subdivision, and Administrative Codes and Zoning Map - Family Housing Opportunity 
Special Use District. Sponsors: Melgar; Engardio. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Melgar and Engardio’ s duplicate ordinance to the Family 
Housing Opportunity Special Use District. This version would allow taller buildings on corner lots within the 
RH districts in the FHO SUD. This item was amended last week, and therefore required a continuance. This 
week, Supervisor Melgar made a motion to further amendment the ordinance to add back the one-year 
ownership requirement for single-family homes, and the five-year ownership requirement for multifamily 
homes that had been removed in previous versions. Those amendments were taken and not deemed to be 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 29, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 12 
 
substantive. There were also some public commenters. All were critical of the ordinance. The committee 
members ended up forwarding the item to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
231258 Planning Code - Housing Production. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Starr.  
 
Next the committee considered a duplicated version of the constraints reduction ordinance. This version 
focused on changes to 311-notification requirements in response to recently passed state law. The 
amendments include changing “building permit” to “planning entitlement application,” defining what is a 
“planning entitlement application,” and some additional clarifying language for 311 triggers. This week, staff 
read the proposed amendments into the record, and the committee voted to accept the amendments. 
President Peskin also indicated he had some additional clerical changes that he would be adding to the 
ordinance at the Full Board once the amendments were approved to form. The Committee then forwarded 
the item to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
231256 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Potrero Yard Special Use District. Sponsors: Ronen; Walton. Staff: 
Snyder. Item 5 
 
240047 General Plan - Potrero Bus Yard Project. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: Snyder. Item 6 
 
Next the Committee considered the Potrero Bus Yard Project. This project includes amendments to the 
Planning Code and Zoning Map to establish the SUD, and a General Plan amendment to make conforming 
changes to the GP. The proposed project includes demolishing SFMTA’s existing two-story bus facility and 
constructing an approximately 1,240,000 square-foot, 75–150-foot, mixed-use building that will contain 
Public Transportation Facility and Public Utility Yard for SFMTA’s and up to 465 dwelling units. 
 
The Planning Commission heard these items on January 11, 2024 and voted to recommend approval.  
 
During the hearing Planning Staff and MTA staff made their respective presentations. There was no public 
comment. The committee then forwarded the item to the full board.  
 
231080 Planning Code - Fleet Charging. Sponsor: Peskin. Starr. Flores. Item 8 
 
231223 Planning Code - Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsor: Chan. Staff: Flores.  
 
Finally, the committee took up Supervisor Chan’s ordinance to amend the Parcel Delivery controls and 
Supervisor Peskin’s ordinance to amend the Fleet charging controls. Commissioners, you heard Supervisor 
Chan’s ordinance on February 8, and voted to recommend approval and suggested that the Board consider 
staff’s proposed amendments. Those include:  
1. Amend the Accessory Use prohibition to exclude cannabis delivery.  
2. Remove the CUA controls from the uses definition.  
3. Revise the Accessory Use controls to match the Accessory Use prohibition included in Section 102.  
4. Incorporate the temporary Parcel Delivery Services exception from the current interim controls.  
5. Include an exemption for off-site uses from the idling signage requirement. 
6. For smaller uses: make the electrification requirement a criterion for consideration rather than a 
condition, create a simpler CUA process, and remove the additional studies.  
7. Conduct a Citywide economic analysis instead of relying on a project-by-project analysis.  
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 29, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 12 
 
You also asked that the Supervisor’s office work with planning on proposed amendments.  
 
Supervisor Chan introduced amendments that were not discussed or shared with planning staff prior to the 
hearing. The ordinance was amended to exempt cannabis businesses from the accessory PDS use 
prohibition, use the standard CU process for projects that are <5,000 square feet, and make technical 
amendments requested by staff.  The file was duplicated and amended to have a 3/30/24 retroactivity date. 
The original file was then sent as a committee report to the Full Board.  
 
Supervisor Peskin’s Fleet Changing ordinance, which would remove an allowance to convert Parking lots and 
vehicle storage lots to Fleet Charging in PDR districts as of right, thus making all Fleet charging uses require 
CU authorization. This commission heard this item on January 11 of this year and voted to recommend 
approval. During the Planning Commission hearing President Peskin indicated that he would be adding a 
grandfathering clause to the ordinance to allow existing applications to move forward but still require 311-
notification. At the land use committee, Peskin added these amendments to the ordinance and the item was 
then forwarded to the full board as a committee report.  
 
As these items were called together there was only one public comment period. Most of those who spoke 
during public comment represented the unions associated with fleet charging and parcel delivery services 
and were in favor of the proposed ordinances.  
 
Full Board 
 
231164 Planning Code - Downtown Rail Extension Fee Waiver. Sponsors: Dorsey; Mandelman. Staff: 
Giacomucci. PASSED Second Read 
 
231079 Planning Code - Planning Code - Density Controls in Three Historic Districts. Sponsor: Peskin. Staff: 
Merlone. Passed 8-3 on First Read. Melgar, Dorsey and Engardio voted against. Melgar and Dorsey expressed 
concern over reducing density outside of our PEG areas, and the need to meet the goals in the housing 
element.  
 
231257 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Grand Theater. Sponsor: Ronen. Staff: La Valley. Passed First 
Read 
 
231080 Planning Code - Fleet Charging. Sponsor: Peskin. Starr. Flores. Passed First Read, 
 
231223 Planning Code - Parcel Delivery Service. Sponsor: Chan. Staff: Flores. Passed First Read