10. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None.  
11. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
231221 Planning Code - Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. Sponsors: 
Mayor; Engardio, Dorsey and Melgar. Staff: V. Flores.  
 
Last week at the Land Use Committee hearing, the committee again considered the Mayor’s ordinance titled 
Citywide Expansion of Allowable Commercial, Restaurant, and Retail Uses. This was a duplicate of the original 
file, and was heard and amended the previous week. 
 
During the hearing, Supervisor Peskin circulated a revised version that refined language related to the LCCU 
use sizes and cleaned up some language related to outdoor activity areas, as suggested by Planning. 
 
Supervisor Melgar asked some clarifying questions about the amendments, which staff answered. There 
were no public comments. After the public comment the ordinance was amended as stated and then sent 
with a positive recommendation to the Full Board. 
 
231225 Planning Code - Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments in North of Market Special Use District. 
Sponsor: Preston. Staff: Melone.  
 
Next the committee considered Supervisor Preston’s ordinance titled Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishments 
in North of Market Special Use District. This ordinance was amended the previous week and continued since 
the amendments were substantive. At this hearing there was no public comment and no comments from the 
committee members. The item was forwarded to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
240001 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 68 Nantucket Avenue. Sponsor: Commission. Staff: Pantoja.  
 
Next the Committee considered a Planning Commission sponsored ordinance to rezoned 68 Nantucket Ave 
from P to RH-1. Commissioners, you heard this item on November 2 of last year and voted to recommend 
approval. During the committee hearing Supervisor Melgar questions why this wasn’t being zoned to 

San Francisco Planning Commission