11. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
None. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 1, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 13 
 
12. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
 
Land Use Committee 
 
231144 Planning, Administrative Codes - Code Corrections Ordinance. Sponsor: Planning Commission. Staff: 
Merlone.  
 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs. This week the Land Use 
committee considered the Planning Commission-sponsored Code Correction’s ordinance. As you probably 
recall the code corrections ordinance is intended to correct errors in the code, that usually come about from 
previous ordinances. This ordinance was continued from last week so that some minor clerical amendments 
could be drafted to form. This week, those amendments were accepted by the committee, and the item was 
then forwarded to the Full Board with a positive recommendation.  
 
230734 Planning Code - Density Calculation in RC, RTO, NC, and Certain Named NCDs. Sponsors: Mayor; 
Melgar.  
 
Next the Committee considered the mayor’s ordinance to add form-based density to NC Zoning Districts 
outside of the PEG SUD. This commission considered this item on October 26, 2023 and voted to recommend 
approval with modifications. Those modifications included exempting North Beach NCD from the rezoning 
effort because most of it fell inside of the PEG SUD and rezoning all the Polk Street NCD because most of it 
fell outside of the PEG SUD. There were also other technical amendments. The mayor did incorporate all of 
the Commissions recommended modifications, in addition to adding form-based density to the Excelsior 
Outer Mission Street NCD. This was a compromise with Supervisor Safai who had also introduced a similar 
ordinance, which you considered at the same time as the mayors. 
 
During the hearing, Supervisor Preston asked questions about whether a feasibility report had been done to 
decide if additional inclusionary rates were required. Staff responded that the TAC had recently completed a 
comprehensive review of the city’s inclusionary rates and found that no housing project is feasible under our 
inclusionary program, and in response the Board had reduced those rates city wide. This analysis includes 
both form-based and lot-based density controls. That answer did not seem to satisfy the supervisor who 
appeared to want a separate study specifically for this rezoning effort. He also took issue with the level of 
public outreach. 
Supervisor Peskin indicated he would have additional amendments that staff inferred would in some way 
prohibit the use of State Density Bonus for projects with form-based density in our NC Districts. However, the 
amendments were not yet signed to form. 
 
There were about a dozen speakers during public comment. Most seemed to be in favor although there were 
a significant number of people opposing the rezoning. Once public comment had completed, the committee 
continued the item one week.  
 
Full Board 
 
231216 Planning Code - Landmark Designation - Westwood Park Entrance Gateways and Pillars. Sponsor: 
Melgar. Staff: LaValley. PASSED Second Read  
 
231817 Hearing - Appeal of Tentative Parcel Map Approval - 1365-1371 York Street. Staff: Starr.  Continued 
to March 5, 2024 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
The Board of Appeals did meet yesterday and heard one case of interest to the Planning Commission for the 
property at 415 Grafton. An appeal of an alteration permit to construct a vertical addition to an existing one story 
over basement, single family dwelling. The adjacent neighbor to the west had previously filed a discretionary 
review with light and air impacts from the addition, privacy impact from the property line windows concerns. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 1, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 13 
 
And at the March 30th, 2023 hearing, the Planning Commission heard testimony from both parties and voted 6 
to 0 to not take DR and approve the project as proposed. The Board of Appeals generally felt the same, and the 
proposed addition is modest in size, and the appellant's own 11 foot wide side setback is more than sufficient to 
provide separation between the two neighboring buildings. And with that, the board voted unanimously to 
deny the appeal and uphold the discretionary review. Additionally, the board elected Jose Lopez as the President 
and Alex Lemberg as their Vice President.