8. 
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
9. 
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr manager of Legislative affairs.  
 
241111 Hearing - Appeal of Determination of Exemption From Environmental Review - Proposed 1719 
Wallace Avenue Project 
 
I wanted to start off by updating you on an CEQA appeal that happened last year before the winter recess. 
On December 17, the Board of Supervisors heard a CEQA appeal of a categorical exemption for a project at 
1719 Wallace Avenue.  
Commissioner’s you originally heard this as a CU on October 10, 2024, and approved the conditional use 
application.  
The project would allow the establishment of an industrial agriculture use for the purpose of cannabis 
cultivation in an existing, one-story industrial building within the PDR-1-B Zoning District.  
The appellant was filed by Barbara Tassa, a neighbor. Several individuals spoke in favor of the appeal. 
Following the public comment period, Supervisor Walton introduced a motion to deny the appeal and 
affirm the categorical exemption, which was seconded by Supervisor Preston.  
The vote passed with 9 to 0, with Supervisor Chan excused.  
The temporary Committee assignments for the land use committee came out last week and include 
Supervisor Melgar as the chair, Supervisor Mahmod, and Supervisor Fielder. We should now the permanent 
members by next week, but I believe most if not all the temporary committee members will remain.  
 
240903 Planning Code - Health Service Uses in West Portal Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor: 
Melgar. Staff: Merlone. 
 
This week the land use committee considered Supervisor Melgar’s ordinance that would allow Health 
Service Uses to exceed the maximum use size on one parcel in West Portal Neighborhood Commercial 
District. 
Commissioners, you heard this on December 5, 2024, and adopted a recommendation for approval. 
At the hearing, Supervisor Melgar indicated her openness to working on a more holistic approach to this 
issue, as was recommended by Planning Staff, but that there was a need to get this radiance passed ASAP. 
Supervisor Mahmod indicated he would support the ordinance given it’s the time sensitive nature, but that 
he would have preferred seeing a more holistic approach.  
There were no public commentors, and the Committee voted to forward the time to the full board with a 
positive recommendation. 
 
240872 Planning Code, Zoning Map - 30 Van Ness Avenue Special Use District; Amendment of Agreement 
for Sale of Real Estate. Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey. Staff: Giacomucci.  
 
At the Full Board this week, the Board considered the 30-Van Ness SUD for its second read; however instead 
of passing it on second read, Supervisor Dorsey propose amendments that would change the required 
inclusionary rates to match the rates in Planning Code Section 415. The amendments made by Supervisor 
Peskin at the Land Use Committee last year included inclusionary rates slightly higher than the standard 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 14 of 16 
 
rates. The amendments were passed unanimously, and the amended ordinance then passed on first read 
unanimously.  
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
I have no report from the Board of Appeals but the Historic Perseveration Commission did meet in these 
chambers yesterday. They considered several Legacy Business Registry applications. The first was for Cha Cha 
Cha on 1801 Haight Street; the Golden Gate Park Band on 75 Hagiwara Tea Garden Drive; City Optic at 2154 
Chestnut Street; and the San Francisco Flower Mart on 16th Street where they adopted Recommendation for 
Approval for all four of those applications. Further, they heard the North Beach National Register Historic District. 
They received a lot of positive support, as well as frustration, I think, from impacted property owners that there 
was not any outreach performed. I would only say that the National Historic District nomination was prepared 
by a private consultant and submitted to the State of California Office of Historic Preservation. In our capacity 
as a certified local government, the City and County is only afforded a 60-day window to review, so this was not 
our application that was put forward or a district that was being proposed by the Planning Department or 
Historic Preservation Commission, so, provided us with very limited time to review even. This will be heard on 
February 7th of this year and all comments due to the State by January 31st, 2025. Finally, they considered the 
project, I shouldn’t say they considered the project, they considered the preservation alternatives for the CEQA 
document at 530 Sansome and 447 Battery Street, which is a recognizable landmark in San Francisco. Their 
conversation surrounded concern about establishing precedent of rescinding landmark status by ordinance 
and how that might impact other landmarks in the future because that was what the project would afford but 
their purview was the preservation alternatives.