8. 
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None. 
9. 
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon, commissioners, Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. 
 
LAND USE 
240787 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Central SoMa and Transit Center District Commercial Development 
Requirements. Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey. 
250003 General Plan - Central SoMa and Transit Center District Commercial Development Requirements. 
Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey. 
 
At land use this week, the Committee considered the mayor’s ordinance that would amendment the 
Planning Code, Zoning Map, and General Plan to remove the 2/3 requirement for office development in the 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 13, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 6 
 
Central SoMa Plan Area. This item was continued from last week’s hearing so that the commission’s 
proposed modifications could be drafted and added to the ordinance. 
As the Committee discussed the bulk of this ordinance last week, this was a relatively short item. Supervisor 
Dorsey, the co-sponsor, introduced the amendments that align with the Commission’s recommended 
modifications. These were to limit projects to 600ft in height and require certain community amenities on 
key sites.  
Two public commenters spoke to reiterate their support for the amendments. They also express 
appreciation to the Planning Department and sponsors for retaining the community benefits on key sites.  
There was no discussion from the Committee. The ordinances were then unanimously forwarded to the Full 
Board with a positive recommendation. 
 
241067 Planning, Building Codes - Interim Housing in Hotels and Motels. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores.  
Next on the agenda was an ordinance, sponsored by the mayor, that would amend the Planning Code to 
allow Hotels and Motels to be used for Interim Housing without abandoning or discontinuing their land use 
designation.  
Commissioners, you heard this item on December 12th of last year and adopted a recommendation for 
approval. Your approval came with the acknowledgement that the ordinance would be amended to require 
relocation efforts for when these Interim Housing units reverted back to hotels. 
Supervisor Dorsey joined the Committee and expressed concerns related to the loss of hotel jobs and tourist 
hotels. He also noted that the Shelter-in-Place hotel suffered considerable damage.  
HSH’s Deputy Director, Emily Cohen, made a presentation on the item. In addition to the amendment 
related to relocation efforts, she also shared the following amendments: 
1. Include new findings related to the continued support for participants and noninterference with 
unionized staff. 
2. Amend the Ordinance to ONLY apply to the Civic Center Motor Inn located at 364 9th Street. This 
Inn will serve as a sober independent living transitional housing pilot program. 
3. Clarify this program is intended for sites that operated as Hotels/Motels as of April 1, 2025 and not 
intended for sites that have abandoned their Hotel/Motel status in the past. 
4. Authorize reestablishment of Hotel use for hotels that operated as Shelter in Place hotels during 
the pandemic and were still operating as interim housing on January 1, 2025 
This last amendment would need to be referred to the Planning Commission. 
There were more than a dozen comments in support of the proposed Ordinance. Most came from those that 
currently reside in or recently graduated from sober living transitional housing programs. 
After closing public comment, Chair Melgar moved to amend the file with all but the SIP hotel amendment 
and continued the item to next week. 
The Chair then noted that she intended to duplicate the amended file next week and add the SIP hotel 
amendment that requires rereferral back to the Planning Commission. 
 
FULL BOARD 
There were no Planning Department items at the Full Board this week. 
 
CLOSING 
In closing, I wanted to acknowledge that Monday is St. Patrick’s Day. Some of you may celebrate with a pint 
or two, so I wanted to share a bit of Irish history to contemplate while you enjoy your drink. Don’t worry—
this will be quick, unlike Irish history in general. 
Ireland has two official symbols: the shamrock and the harp.  
We’re all familiar with the shamrock, as it is widely associated with St. Patrick and Irish identity; however, 
the harp holds a unique place as the country’s official emblem.  
Just as the U.S. uses the eagle on government seals, Ireland uses the harp—a tradition that dates back 
centuries.  

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 13, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 6 
 
Since the 13th century, the harp has been a heraldic symbol of Ireland, representing the nation’s deep 
connection to music. In medieval times, harpists played for chieftains, and the instrument became central 
to Irish culture. 
Even outsiders took note. In 1185, Prince John—later King John of England—visited Ireland and gave the 
Irish this rather backhanded compliment: 
"The only thing to which I find that this people apply a commendable industry is playing upon musical 
instruments… they are incomparably more skillful than any other nation I have ever seen… Scotland 
and Wales strive to rival Ireland in the art of music." 
So, when the Irish Free State was established in 1922, it made sense to adopt the harp as its national 
emblem. But there was one small problem—Guinness had already trademarked the harp 50 years earlier.