8. 
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
None.  
9. 
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
LAND USE 
240787 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Central SoMa and Transit Center District Commercial Development 
Requirements. Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey. 
250003 General Plan - Central SoMa and Transit Center District Commercial Development Requirements. 
Sponsors: Mayor; Dorsey.  
At land use this week, the Committee considered the mayor’s ordinance, co-sponsored by Supervisor 
Dorsey, that would amendment the Planning Code, Zoning Map, and General Plan to remove the 2/3 
requirement for office development in the Central CsoMa Plan area. Commissioners, you considered this 
item last year on November 7 and recommended approval with modifications. Those modifications 
included  
1. Modify the Ordinance to exempt projects 600’ in height and under from the mandatory office 
allocation requirements in the Central SoMa SUD instead of eliminating the requirement entirely; 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 6, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 6 of 8 
 
and 
2. Recommending that the sponsor and Board of Supervisors encourage the retention of benefits that 
focus on complete streets and neighborhoods for these sites. 
During the hearing co-sponsor Supervisor Dorsey spoke to the item. Planning Staff gave an overview of the 
Central SoMa Plan, and the Commissions action and recommendation, and the Office of the Controller gave 
a presentation on the ordinance’s economic impact. 
There were about 11 people who commented during public comment representing various neighborhood 
groups and the developer community. Public comments were generally positive, with most voicing support 
for the Commission’s proposed recommendations. 
The sponsor of the ordinance intends to incorporate the Commissions proposed amendments but is still 
working with the City Attorney’s office on the final form of those amendments. As such the item was 
continued for one week.  
FULL BOARD 
240932 Planning Code - Third Street Alcohol Restricted Use District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: V. Flores. 
PASSED Second Read 
241121 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Leland Avenue Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor: Walton. 
Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read  
240927 Planning Code - Development Impact Fees and Requirements for Non-Residential to Residential 
Conversion Projects. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Langlois. PASSED Second Read 
Corey Teague, Zoning Administrator: 
The Board of Appeals did meet last night but they did not take up any items that are of interest to the 
commission. Thank you.