15. DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
16. REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs: 
Good afternoon commissioners Aaron Starr Manager of Legislative Affairs. We’re coming to the end of Black 
History Month. For a big chunk of it I was traveling around New Zealand, but I did manage to get back in time 
for the Department’s celebration, which was held this past Tuesday. It included some delicious food, music, and 
a panel discussion by three local Black artists. One of the key ideas the artists touched on is that, in our current 
climate, celebrating Black History Month, Black artists, and even Black joy itself is an act of resistance. That’s 
something worth remembering. These annual celebrations can sometimes feel routine, and it’s easy to struggle 
to find fresh inspiration. But in many ways, our current moment has given us an unexpected gift—the chance 
to reassess and reinvigorate these traditions. By openly and vocally celebrating the history, culture, and 
contributions that some seek to erase, we actively resist that erasure. We affirm that these stories matter, that 
this joy matters, and that we will continue to honor and uplift them. So, happy Black History Month. 
 
Land Use  
240932 Planning Code - Third Street Alcohol Restricted Use District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: V. Flores. 
First on the land use agenda was Supervisor Walton’s ordinance that would amend the Third Street Alcohol 
Restricted Use District. The amendment would conditionally permit certain Bars within the Bayview 
Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD).  
Commissioners you heard this item on December 5th of last year and adopted a recommendation for approval. 
During land use, there were no public comments or Supervisor discussion. The item was subsequently sent to 
the Full Board with positive recommendation as a committee report. 
241121 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Leland Avenue Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: 
V. Flores.  
Next the Committee considered Supervisor Waltons ordinance to create the Leland Avenue Neighborhood 
Commercial District. The controls in the new NCD will remain primarily the same as NC-2, but some controls 
would be amended to better reflect the community’s needs. Commissioners, you heard this item on February 
6th and adopted a recommendation for approval. 
During the land use hearing, Supervisor Walton introduced the item and shared the overall goals of enhancing 
foot traffic in the corridor and fostering small business opportunities. He emphasized that community 
engagement efforts began in 2023, and that the drafted legislation aligns with the community’s goals.  
There were three public commentors in support of the legislation. There was no additional Committee 
discussion, and the item was sent to the Board with positive recommendations as a committee report. 
 
Full Board 
240873 Planning, Health Codes - Inclusionary Housing Ordinance, Non-Potable Water Exemption. Sponsor: 
Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED Second Read 
240927 Planning Code - Development Impact Fees and Requirements for Non-Residential to Residential 
Conversion Projects. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Langlois. Passed First Read 
240932 Planning Code - Third Street Alcohol Restricted Use District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: V. Flores. Passed 
First Read  
241121 Planning Code, Zoning Map - Leland Avenue Neighborhood Commercial District. Sponsor: Walton. Staff: 
V. Flores. Passed First Read 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 27, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 10