7. 
DIRECTOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners. Just a preview, later today the Mayor is going to issue an executive directive 
on permitting reform that we had been involved in along with our partner agencies at DBI and the Permit Center, 
and the Office of Small Business. And what the executive directive will do, and we’ll send it to you when it’s 
signed and issued, is require us to undertake specific actions in the next hundred days as well as the next year 
and those are around process, changes, regulatory and fee changes potentially, structural change like how 
departments are organized which can ultimately lead to charter change, and technology in like how we all 
interface our technologies in permitting process, in processing permits. So, there’s an executive team that has 
been established to do this work. We have been asked that Planning to lead it. Myself and Liz is part of it which 
we are honored and committed to do but we can only do this with the help of the other permitting agencies, 
so, DBI plays a huge role in this, the Permit Center, which is currently under the City Administrator’s office, will 
be a big participant and the Office of Small Business as well, Katy Tang, Rebecca Villareal-Mayer, and Patrick 
O’Riordan. So, we’ll come back and talk to you more about that but just wanted to give you a preview. And we’ll 
certainly send it to you when it’s issued. Thanks. 
8. 
REVIEW OF PAST EVENTS AT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, BOARD OF APPEALS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION 
Audrey Merlone: 
Good afternoon, Commissioners, Audrey Merlone filling in for Aaron Starr today. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 13, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 of 7 
 
Land Use Committee 
240873 Planning, Health Codes - Inclusionary Housing Ordinance, Non-Potable Water Exemption. Sponsor: 
Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. 
The Land Use and Transportation Committee first heard this item last week on February 3rd. It was 
continued to this week because the amendments were considered substantive. Supervisor Sauter provided 
a brief update sharing there was growing support for the Sutter Street project in between the two 
Committee hearings. There was one public comment in support of the project at 1101 Sutter and the need 
for more housing. After closing public comment, the item was sent to the full Board with positive 
recommendation as a committee report. 
 
240927 Planning Code - Development Impact Fees and Requirements for Non-Residential to Residential 
Conversion Projects. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: Langlois. 
 
Sup. Dorsey moved to make several clarifying amendments along with take the Planning Commission's 
recommended modifications. Sup. Sauter also attended to speak on behalf of the ordinance as a cosponsor. 
Sup. Chen emphasized the importance of ensuring the city still has the resources they need to construct 
affordable housing, especially in the City's cultural districts. She stated that many vulnerable communities 
have made it known that they have not been adequately consulted on this legislation. She requested that 
the Committee continue the item to February 24th to give more time for consultation with the communities.  
 
Supervisor Melgar stated she has been a stalwart supporter of childcare and affordable housing support. At 
the same time, she has seen the effect of the high vacancy rates in the downtown. She stated that the 
commerce generated by the downtown's active hotels and commercial businesses spreads through the city 
and the lack of it has negatively impacted neighborhoods far and wide. She emphasized the amount of work 
that needs to be done to revitalize our downtown. She wants funds for childcare, parks, affordable housing, 
however inaction on development hurts all these resources even more. She committed to this legislation 
not being the start of a wholesale role back of impact fees and enforced that this fee waiver is only to be 
applied to adaptive reuse projects, not new construction. 
 
Sup. Mahmood brought up the example of the Warfield. He stated that they were set to move forward as 
an adaptive reuse project until it didn't pencil. That space being active is critical to enlivening the 
downtown, whether its through adaptive reuse or through other initiatives like arts and entertainment 
spaces.  
 
Supervisor Dorsey clarified the ordinance’s impacts on new construction projects. OEWD confirmed that 
only the portions of any existing office that are converted to residential would be exempt from these impact 
fees. Any new additions/new construction would still trigger the fees. 
 
The motion made by Sup. Chen to continue the item to February 24th failed 2:1 with Sup. Chen the sole 
assenting vote. 
 
Sup. Mahmood moved to make the amendments discussed above which was approved unanimously. 
 
The Committee then moved to 2:1 to move the item forward with a positive recommendation, with Sup. 
Chen in the dissent. 
 
241067 Planning, Building Codes - Interim Housing in Hotels and Motels. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 13, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 5 of 7 
 
The sponsor requested a continuance to work on additional amendments. There were two public comments 
in support of using hotels as supportive housing and interim shelter support. Additionally, the Local 2 union 
supported the continuance. After closing public comment, the item was continued to the Call of the Chair. 
 
Full Board 
240929 Planning Code - 99 Rhode Island Street. Sponsor: Dorsey. Staff: Merlone. PASSED Second Read 
240873 Planning Code - Inclusionary Housing Ordinance. Sponsor: Mayor. Staff: V. Flores. PASSED First Read