12.1999.423E                                                                                     
    (COOPER: 558-5974)
639 and 
    699 SECOND STREET-Certification of the Final Environmental Impact 
    Reportprepared fortheconversion of the existing two-story-over-basement building at 699 Second 
    Street, which has been determined to be eligible for theNational Register 
    of Historic Placesand isa contributoryelement to the 
    South End Historic District, from its industrial/warehouse designation, to 
    office and retail/restaurant use, and construction of a three-story addition 
    with two levels of underground parking. The resulting building would contain 
    about 49,950 square feet of office space, about 6,550 square feet of retail/restaurant 
    space and about 100 off-street parking spaces. On the adjacent parcel to the 
    north with an existing surface parking lot, at 639 (635) Second Street, a 
    separate six-story building would be constructed that would include about 
    49,950 square feet of office space, nine residential units and 112 off-street 
    parking spaces. The project site is located in an SSO (Service/Secondary Office) 
    zoning district, and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.
Please 
    Note: The public hearing on the Draft EIR is closed.  The public comment period 
    for the Draft EIR ended on May 29, 2001. The Planning Commission does not 
    conduct public review of Final EIRs.  Public comments on the certification 
    only may be presented to the Planning Commission.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Certify Environmental Impact Report
SPEAKER(S):    None
ACTION:           Environmental Impact Report Certified
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
MOTION:          16179
13.                    2001.028T                                                                                       
    (YOUNG:  558-6346)
BICYCLE 
    PARKING REQUIREMENTS- Consideration of a proposed Ordinance addingSection 155.4 to the Planning Code 
    to require that all new and renovated commercial and industrial buildings 
    contain parking spaces for bicycles in accordance with such building's square 
    footage and primary use.
Testimony 
    and Commission considerations could result in recommendations of modifications 
    to the proposed legislation.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Approval
SPEAKER(S):
(+)Sarah Owsowitz Klein, Deputy City Attorney
- At the recommendation of the Zoning Administration, the City Attorney suggests 
    a recommendation of an amendment to section 155(j).  Section 155(j) states 
    that except as provided in 155.1 and 155.2 for each 20 off street parking 
    space provided, 1 space should be provided for parking of bicycles.  The most 
    restricted provision of 155(j) or 155.4 shall prevail.  This would have the 
    effect of ensuring that this currently existing ratio of off street parking 
    to bike parking would only come into play when the requirements of 155.4 were 
    less restrictive.
(+) Athem Curtis – Representative 
    of Supervisor Leno's Office
- Supervisor Leno was not able to 
    attend this hearing.
- Mr. Badiner explained perfectly what the intent is.  The existing bicycle 
    storage legislation is strictly limited to commercial buildings that have 
    parking space and they wanted to create a bicycle storage requirement for 
    other commercial buildings.
- Bicycle transit is a very environmentally 
    friendly form of transportation that they really would like to encourage.
(+) Lea Shaham – San Francisco Bicycle 
    Coalition
- The coalition has been working with 
    the staff of Supervisor Leno's office.
- There are many benefits to transportation 
    via bicycles.
- She is a little surprised at the 
    Department's estimate of cost for very basic parking.
ACTION:           Approved with the following amendment:  Section 155(j) 
    is amended to add,  The more restrictive provisions of Planning Code Section 
    155(j) or 155.4 shall prevail .
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
MOTION:          16180
14.        2001.0518C                                                                                            
    (FU:  558-6613)
2872 
    - 24thSTREET- north side between Florida and Bryant Streets, 
    Lot 020A in Assessor’s Block 4208 - Request for Conditional Use authorization 
    under PlanningCode Section 
    727.42 and pursuant to Planning Code Section 303, to allow the conversion 
    of a trade shop into a full service restaurant in the 24thStreet-Mission 
    Neighborhood Commercial District with a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Approval with conditions
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Jorge Hernandez – Project Sponsor
-He submitted the declaration of signage 
    and letters of support by the adjacent neighbors.
- He is available for questions.
(+) Anita Cecina
- She is the owner of the adjacent 
    property.
- She feels that she is not opposed 
    to this project but she does have some concerns.
- Recently she had to have the sewer replaced.  This sewer is shared by both 
    properties. Mr. Chan, who owns the building of the proposed property, wasn't 
    aware of this fact.  So she had to pay for the repair costs.
- If a full kitchen and bathrooms 
    are constructed, she is concerned that something might go wrong and wants 
    to know who will have to pay for repairs.
- She is also concerned about the 
    noise that will be generated from the restaurant.
- Her family has owned the adjacent 
    property for over 40 years.
ACTION:           Approved with Conditions.
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
MOTION:          16181
15.        2000.1261EC(WANG: 558-6335)
4501 
    IRVING STREET- southwest corner of Irving Street and 46th Avenue; Lots 
    047 and 049 in Assessor's Block 1801.  Request for Conditional Use authorization 
    under Planning Code Sections 121.1 and 710.11 to develop a new, four‑story, 
    mixed‑use building, including approximately 1,800 square feet of ground 
    floor commercial space and ten dwelling units on three upper floors, on two 
    lots totaling 8,250 square feet in area within an NC‑1 (Neighborhood 
    Commercial Cluster) District and a 40‑X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Approval of a three‑story, mixed‑use building 
    (fourth floor removed).
SPEAKER(S):
(+) John Sanger – Representing Project 
    Sponsor
- The Hung Family has owned this property 
    for about 30 years.
- They have started to develop it 
    for a more intensive use.
- The intent was to accomplish the construction of two generous owner's units 
    for the purposes of rental.  The issue boils down to the top floor.
- The difficulty of responding to 
    eliminating the top floor is that it would affect the whole design of the 
    building.
- He presented two options to the 
    Commission between balancing the policy to promote housing and dealing with 
    scale issues.
- The project sponsor would like to have the Commission approve the project 
    as proposed then the sponsor would allow 2 affordable units.  The second proposal 
    would be that the design of the project change with the top floor set back.  
    The second option would not allow for owner occupancy.
(+) Mary Ann Miller
- She hadn't seen the plans.
- She wants the housing units and 
    the corner to be improved.
- The character of the neighborhood is mixed.  There are some wonderful older 
    houses that she is trying to retain.
- Mr. Ng is a very clever architect who is willing to do a redesign that 
    would modify the 3rd floor.  She feels that the design could set back from 
    a few houses on Irving Street.
- She would like 10 units with the 
    top unit still set back in some way.
(+) Mr. Ng – Project Architect
- He is willing to work with staff 
    and SPEAK to redesign the project.
(-) Ron Stikle
- He is opposed to the project not 
    just because of the size and the parking but more because of the loss of valuable 
    space that is there right now.
- In the Sunset, they have more need 
    for valuable service-providing space and/or school space.
- They have tried to get in touch with the owner and tried to find a buyer.  
    It is not in bad shape.
- He would rather a community school 
    be there.
- The space that would be lost would 
    be a disservice to the much-needed services of the Sunset.
ACTION:           Approved with revisions:  1) remodeling of the upper 
    floor so it doesn't include a setback; 2) revise landscaping to include more 
    trees; and 3) accept 10 units with two affordable units.
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas
NAYES:            Theoharis
MOTION:          16182
16a.      2001.1117CV                                                                                   
    (PURVIS: 558-6354)
2183 
    MISSION STREET- east side between 17th and 18th Streets; Lots 32 & 
    33 in Assessor’s Block 3575.  Request for Conditional Use authorization under 
    Planning Code Sections 121.2 and 712.21 for a non-residential use size over 
    6,000 square feet.  The project would involve the demolition of two single 
    story buildings and the construction of a five-story building for a Large 
    Institution:  "The Homeless Prenatal Program," including social 
    services and childcare, with accessory office space and retail sales.  The 
    project would provide up to 17,000 gross floor area for social services for 
    women, including prenatal and substance abuse counseling, housing and job 
    assistance, vocational training, and legal assistance.  It would include a 
    childcare facility in the rear for up to 27 children and retail sales space 
    fronting Mission Street.  No off-street parking would be provided, subject 
    to a Parking Variance.  The site is within an NC-3 (Moderate-Scale Neighborhood 
    Commercial Zoning) District and a 65-B Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Approval with Conditions.
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Martha Ryan – Executive Director 
    and Founder of the Prenatal Program
- Twelve years ago, the program was 
    just for homeless women and children.
- Now, the needs are to provide more 
    than just prenatal care.
- There are six different programs 
    that have come about from the needs of the clients.
- With these six programs, they will 
    have served 1,600 clients.
- People are never turned away.  They try to find the strengths of each woman 
    so that they can move forward in life.
- There are various programs including 
    a housing assistance program.
- There are substance abuse programs; 
    there are advocacy programs that teach clients and staff to raise their voices 
    about policies.
- In this new building, they plan 
    to expand their services.
(+) Jim Stuber – Representing the 
    Department of Public Help
- This program is quite necessary 
    for the community.
- He hopes that the Commission will 
    approve this project.
ACTION:           Approved
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
MOTION:          16183
16b.      2001.1117CV(PURVIS: 558-6354)
2183 
    MISSION STREET- east side between 17th and 18th Streets; Lots 32 & 
    33 in Assessor’s Block 3575.  Request for a Parking Variance under Sections 
    151 and 305.  The project would provide up to 10,800 occupied floor area for 
    social services, up to 2,000 square feet of accessory office space, up to 
    400 square feet of retail space, and a childcare facility for up to 27 children.  
    Section 151 of the Planning Code requires off-street parking at a rate of 
    one space for each 300 square feet for outpatient clinics, including social 
    services, one space for each 500 square feet for office and retail space, 
    and one space for each 25 children for a childcare facility.  The project 
    would require 42 independently accessible parking spaces.  The proposal is 
    to provide no off-street parking.  Section 305 of the Code allows a variance 
    from this parking standard subject to a hearing by the Zoning Administrator.
SPEAKER(S):    Same as those listed for item 16a.
ACTION:           The Zoning Administrator closed the Public Hearing and 
    granted the variance.
17.        2000.1328E                                                                                         
    (Chan:558-5982)
1750 
    Folsom Street-Appeal of a Preliminary Negative Declaration.Assessor's 
    Block 3530, Lot 6. The proposed project would include the demolition of an 
    8,600-square-foot warehouse building, retention of a portion of the existing 
    slab foundation and construction of a new 14,280 square foot, three story 
    plus mezzanine, 40 foot tall structure. The building would contain about 10,210 
    square feet of restaurant and bar space, and 4,070 square feet catering facility. 
    Nineteen off-street parking spaces would be provided in the basement-parking 
    garage. The site is on Folsom Street, bounded by Erie Street, 14thStreet, and South Van Ness, within the Mission neighborhood. The site is within 
    the Planning Commission's adopted Industrial Protection Zone (IPZ) buffer 
    and within the M-1 (Light Industrial) zoning district and a 40-X height and 
    bulk district.  The project sponsor is seeking a variance from the parking 
    requirement for independently accessible parking spaces in order to increase 
    available parking from 19 to 34 spaces by providing valet parking.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation:  Uphold Negative Declaration
SPEAKER(S):
(-) Ya Renier  - Board of Directors of Rainbow Grocery
-  The Board of Directors of Rainbow Grocery Store is very concerned with 
    the impact of parking that this project will create.
- Although the department has a transit 
    first policy, the location of the store has created some problems since they 
    moved away from the Mission District about five years ago.
- The increase in the frequency of 
    the Folsom line bus has helped increase the number of customers.
- She is afraid that this project 
    will impact their business.
(-) Eric Quesada - MAC
- His organization is opposed to the 
    negative declaration.
- This type of a mega restaurant coming 
    into an IPZ will have a negative effect on the area.
- They have seen in the past few years, 
    site after site being turned over into different types of uses even though 
    they meet some type of zoning acceptance in the area, he believes that there 
    is a negative affect on the PDR's within the area.
- Although the catering component 
    of the project is a positive one since it will provide jobs to the neighborhood, 
    he believes that it should be more of a primary use than a 4-story fancy and 
    very large restaurant.
- He knows that the Planning Department 
    is working on re-zoning various areas of the City, especially the Mission 
    District that will begin a planning process to look more closely at different 
    sites.
- He thanked Lulu's Restaurant representatives 
    for contacting various organizations to discuss the concerns they might have.
(-) Oscar Grande – member of People 
    Organizing to Demand Environmental and Economic Rights and a member of MAC
- He would like to welcome Commissioner 
    Lim who represents District 11.
- His organization is opposed to this 
    negative declaration.
- A project like this inflates the cost of the land.  This has been seen 
    on various occasions.
- Although they are in favor of the catering component because if fits into 
    the blue collar uses that are in the North East Mission Industrial Zone.  
    These types of catering jobs provide good living wages and provide jobs for 
    the local community.
- This restaurant supposedly will be  residential-serving .  He believes 
    that it will just be another destination spot.
- He is thankful that the architect 
    and the owner of the restaurant did approach MAC to discuss their concerns.
- They lost a lot of auto body shops 
    on 17thand Folsom because of the rising costs of land value.
- They need to have businesses that 
    employ people from the community.
- He would like that the catering 
    to be the primary use and that the restaurant be scaled down.
(-) Ada Chan – MEDA
- The restaurant part of the project 
    is creating the parking problems, not the catering part of the project.
- They don't oppose the catering component 
    of the project.
(-) Chris Selig
- She is concerned about the definition of what is an environmental review.  
    She believes that this would include the impact on people, not just related 
    to their health.
- The use of the site would impact 
    this area as well as the whole neighborhood.
(-) James Tracy
- He agrees with everything Mr. Quesada 
    spoke about.
- They are currently working on a 
    planning process for the Mission.
- Please honor the fact that they 
    are organizing and working on a community planning process for the Mission.
(-) Sarah Jarmon – Rainbow Grocery
- As the Planning Department, it is 
    their job to plan ahead looking out for possible problems that future development 
    may create, looking to find a solution before the problem occurs.
- In the report, it states that the 
    parking problem would worsen.
- It would seem more prudent to offer 
    a solution of the parking problem that already exists.
- The architect has offered to speak 
    to MUNI to improve their service and has contacted various organizations to 
    discuss their concerns.
- She would like the owners of the 
    restaurant to contact Mission Hiring Hall in order to offer employment to 
    residents of the neighborhood.
- She believes that the catering component 
    of the project should be bigger.
(+) Jordan Geiger – Project Designer 
    and Project Architect
- He appreciates the fact that the 
    members of Rainbow Grocery have acknowledged that the project sponsor has 
    worked with them and the community to try to solve problems and issues.
- They have been in communication 
    with MUNI to increase the number of busses running on Folsom Street.
- There is a letter from the project 
    sponsor, which he submitted to the Commission.
- This is a three-story building and 
    not a four-story building.
- This will not be a fancy restaurant.
(+) Cass Smith – Project Architect
- There are issues, which are being 
    brought up to have MUNI increase and improve their service.
- The parking has been designed within 
    the guidelines of the department to be transit oriented and not to have more 
    cars.
ACTION:           Negative Declaration Upheld
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
MOTION:          16184
F.DISCRETIONARY REVIEW HEARING
At Approximately4:40PMthe Planning Commission 
    convened into a Discretionary Review (DR) Hearing to hear and act on Discretionary 
    Review matters.
18a.2000.1328ED(M.SNYDER: 575-6891)
1750 
    Folsom Street- west side between 13th and 14th Streets, 
    Lot 6 in Assessor’s Block 3530.  Mandatory Discretionary Review of Building 
    Permit No. 2001/01/04/9225 pursuant to Planning Commission Resolution 14861, 
    for the demolition of an 8,600 square foot industrial building.  The building 
    is proposed to be replaced with a new building that would contain a restaurant 
    and catering business.  The property is within an M-1 (Light Industrial) District, 
    a 40-X Height and Bulk District, and an Industrial Protection Zone Buffer.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary Review and approve the project as 
    proposed.
SPEAKER(S):
(-) Erik Quesada
- They are very concerned about the 
    impact this project will have on the neighborhood.
- The restaurant will be moderate 
    to some folks and expensive to other folks.
- This is a very large project and 
    a very large restaurant.
- The other concerns are about valet parking.  For example, where will these 
    cars be parked?
(-) Oscar Grande
- The bottom line:  their concerns are the protection of the Industrial Protection 
    Zones.
- The restaurant should be made more 
    affordable for people to come to the restaurant.
- If the restaurant is scaled down, it would still not be enough.
- They would like to have community-based 
    employment agencies to participate in the hiring process for both the restaurant 
    and the catering business.
(-) Ada Chan
- A previous speaker who wasn't able 
    to stay is concerned about the parking impact.
- Is this restaurant going to be affordable 
    for the people who work in the area?
- She would like to see the project 
    disapproved.
(-) Chris Zelik
- She appreciates the consideration 
    of the Commission with their concerns.
- Even if it is a restaurant use and 
    it does provide jobs, the negative impact on the neighborhood would not be 
    offset by the restaurant jobs.
(-) Shahir
- Every square foot counts in these 
    Industrial Protection Zones.
- The project is not light industry.  It is a restaurant, which could be 
    constructed in other areas of San Francisco.
- The only reason the project is going 
    on Folsom is that the land use is cheaper.
- Every single square foot of PDR 
    use should be protected.
(-) Sarah Jarman
- She would like the Commission to 
    look closely at the report.
- This needs to be re-evaluated.
- She would like the Commission and 
    staff to speak to the community even after this hearing.
(+) Jordan Guiger
- It is worth considering a few circumstances of the project.  This property 
    was never rented.  Its owner always used it.
-  The plan is not to inflate uses or costs.
- He understands the issues of gentrification 
    and the increase in rents.
- This project is very well marketed.
- The current building makes it impossible 
    for the building to be remodeled for an accessible use.
- They are counting strictly on a 
    catering business to provide jobs for this City.
- The restaurant is planned for Argentine 
    Cuisine.
(+) Cass Smith
- He would like to thank the Commission 
    and staff working on this project.
- The affordability of the restaurant 
    is tied to the success of the restaurant.
- Many people wrote letters of support 
    but couldn't be here.
- Rainbow has more of a MUNI issue.
- Although he is in favor of community 
    activists, he has concerns about people who are not affected by this project 
    but have come here to speak against the project.
(+) Jody Denton – Executive Chef of 
    Lulu Group
- One issue seems to be unresolved:  nobody really knows what affordable 
    is.  This is certainly subjective since who you are determines what is affordable 
    for you.
- The appetizers will be in the $3.00 to $9.00 range.  Entrees will begin 
    around $10.00 and range up to about $18.00.
- Regarding employment practices:  they will employee equally from the back 
    kitchen staff into the management staff.  They have always promoted and maintained 
    diversity in their working environment.  As far as specific agreements of 
    hiring within the community, they are certainly open to discussions with the 
    community.  There are certain jobs that will have certain requirements and 
    these requirements will have to be met.  If they are found within the community, 
    well, that would be great.
ACTION:           Took Discretionary Review and Disapproved the Project
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
18b.      2000.1328EV(M.SNYDER: 575-6891)
1750 
    Folsom Street-west side between 13th and 
    14th Streets, Lot 6 in Assessor’s Block 3530.  Variance sought to replace 
    the required 23 independently accessible parking spaces with 34 attendant 
    parking spaces.  The parking spaces would not be independently accessible 
    requiring a Variance.  The Variance is being sought in conjunction with the 
    proposed demolition of the existing industrial building and the proposed construction 
    of a new building that would contain a restaurant and catering business.  
    The property is within an M-1 (Light Industrial) District, a 40-X Height and 
    Bulk District and an Industrial Protection Zone Buffer.
SPEAKER(S):    Same as those listed for item 18a.
ACTION:           Because the project was disapproved, there is no longer 
    a variance to be considered by the Zoning Administrator.
19.        2000.1267D                                                                                 
          (WANG: 558-6335)
215 ROOSEVELT 
    WAY-southeast side between Fairbanks and 15th Streets, Lot 060 
    inAssessor's Block 2614. Request for Discretionary Review of Building 
    Permit No. 2000/04/27/8397 and Building Permit Application No. 2000/04/27/8394. 
    The proposal is to demolish an existing one‑story over garage, single‑family 
    dwelling and construct a new three‑story over garage, two‑family 
    dwelling in an RH‑2 (Residential, House, Two‑Family) District 
    and a 40‑X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and approve the project only with 
    the complete removal of the fourth floor.
(Continued 
    from Regular Meeting of June 14, 2001)
SPEAKER(S):
Re:  Continuance
Mr. Chan – Representing Project Sponsor
- He would like the project to be 
    continued to afford the project sponsor the oppratunity to deal with the issues 
    of height and mass for the 4thlevel.
- They have been searching for a reasonable 
    design solution.
- They would like to determine if 
    they can extend the front building wall by at least 5 feet into the purported 
    front set back area so as to pick up the square footage and facilitate the 
    program proposed by the project sponsor.
- If this were to happen, it would 
    create additional opportunities to mitigate the concerns of the DR requestor.
- The staff has requested the elimination of the 4thfloor.
- He believes that there is a good 
    opportunity to have constructive dialogue.
Michael Givertz – Representing DR 
    Requestor
- He wasn't approached about this until 4:00 p.m. today.  There are about 
    15 to 20 neighbors who are here to listen to this meeting.
- The continuance is for two weeks 
    and he will not be in town.
-If the Commission were inclined to allow a continuance it would have to be more 
    than two weeks.
NOTE:  The Commission decided to hold the hearing today.
Re:  Project
(-) Michael Givertz – Representing 
    DR Requestor
-He agrees and appreciates the Planning 
    Department's recommendation of removing the top floor, however, the issue 
    of rear depth and the impacts on the rear depth of the proposed structure 
    has not been addressed by the recommendation.
- He does not believe that a variance 
    is required but he leaves that to the discretion of the department.
- The staff analysis recognizes that 
    the proposed 4thstory building does not step down in height in 
    the rear of the lot, which leads to an incompatible building rear configuration.
- Changing the pattern of the rear 
    yards would have a significant negative impact on the mid block open space.
- Each of the adjacent buildings has 
    side windows, which accommodate light, and air and this project will negatively 
    impact these windows.
- In addition to the removal of the 4thfloor, he would like to 
    have the building built at it's existing zero setback.  He believes that this 
    would be consistent with the neighborhood.
(-) Barbara Deutsch
- She submitted photograph to the 
    Commissioners.
- She has been asked by the downstairs 
    neighbor to show their perspective of the impact they will have if this project 
    is constructed.
- The character of Roosevelt Way is that it's a sloping hill. Each roofline 
    continues up the hill.  This 4-story building would interrupt that.
(-) LaVaughn Craig
- She and her husband live on Roosevelt 
    Way.
- She realizes how difficult it is 
    to have different needs and different wants.
- The project is of a very large scale.  She agrees with the staff recommendation 
    to bring down the size of the building.
(-) Ed Knoll
- He supports the zero setbacks and the elimination of the 4thFloor.  There are no houses that have a 4thstory.
(-) Margit Ritchie
- She lives across the street from the proposed project.
- She also agrees with everything 
    the previous speakers have stated.
- The 4thFloor should 
    be eliminated.
- She has no problems with the frontage.
- If the 4thstory were 
    allowed to be built, it would lower the value of the other homes.
(-) Peter Sloss
- He lives on Roosevelt Way.
- His building is a two unit building 
    and he is speaking on behalf of the tenants of this building.
- One concern is the tree that will 
    be removed because of the construction.
- There are a few trees that are mature 
    and add greatly to the neighborhood not only in appearance but also enhance 
    the privacy of the homes
- He would like a condition to have 
    the tree remain or replaced with a tree of similar shape.
(-) Jill Terry
- She lives on Roosevelt Way.
- She doesn't own a property but rents 
    a unit in a building on this street.
- She is concerned that the view from her apartment will be impacted.  She 
    rented the unit because of the view but she could now be cheated of this.
(-) Arnie Lerner – Architect – Lerner 
    and Associates Architects
- He urges the Commission to approve 
    the project.
- To move the building to the zero 
    setbacks would be the best decision.
- Most of the buildings are right 
    up to the property line.
-There is an existing pattern with these buildings.
(-) Jerry Spolter
- He lives on 16thStreet
- He thanks the Commission for being 
    sensitive to their issues.
- There are many people here who have 
    taken time from their jobs and daily life to be here to speak regarding this 
    project.
- If the setback is required, they 
    will be looking at a building which will be budding over the green area.
(-) Sherry Shaw
- She lives on Roosevelt Street
- Her apartment is on the ground floor 
    and the construction will greatly impact the light and air that come into 
    her building.
(-) Joe Beyer
- He owns a home on Roosevelt Way.
- He supports staff recommendations.
- By extending the setback, this will 
    greatly affect the value of his property.
(-) Mrs. Robert Dreher
- She lives on Roosevelt Way.
- She strongly supports the zero setbacks 
    because of the extra space this will take over the yard.
- There is a cluster of back yards that provide open space.  If there is 
    no setback it will not impact these yards.
- She has a very nice view of Bernal 
    Heights and this setback will take over her view and block sun from her garden.
(-) Adolf Mehar
- He purchased his home in 1978 and 
    had a  million dollar view .
- Then the City allowed a construction that eliminated part of his view.  
    Now with this building, it will completely block his view.
(-) Larry Wiman – DR Applicant
- He doesn't want to repeat anything 
    the previous speakers have said.
- He supports taking Discretionary 
    Review.
- All of his neighbors do not oppose 
    the zero setback.
(+) Victor Kim – Architect and Owner 
    of the Project
- He has lived at this address for 
    4 years.
- This project is for his family and 
    parents.
- He wants a home for his family.
- This project has gone on for too 
    long.
- If the 4thFloor is eliminated 
    it will eliminate two rooms and a full bathroom.
- He submitted further design changes 
    to reduce the size of the 4thFloor.
- There are a lot of 4 story buildings 
    in the neighborhood.
- The project fits within the context 
    of the design guidelines.
- There are yards on both sides of 
    the project.
- The park is situated away from the 
    project.
(+) Alison Kim
- She is the co-owner of this project.
- The proposed house was in bad shape when they purchased it so they have 
    had difficulty getting insurance.  They then began to work on developing the 
    project in order to make it safe.
- They have kept their neighbors informed 
    of the designs and modifications this project has had.
- There is no basis for a zero setback 
    variance.
- Over the four years that they have 
    lived in the neighborhood, they have made a few friends.
- No one ever said that there were 
    any negative impacts on this project.
-They don't understand why there has been a sudden shift of position.
(+) George Broder
- He read a letter from Chuck Womack 
    who wasn't able to attend but is in favor of the project.
(+) Douglas Chan
- As a result of accommodating the Department's decision with concerns to 
    the front setback, it forced the architect to design the project vertically.  
    That is why the 4thfloor was designed into this project.
- The massing has been mitigated by 
    the graduated front setbacks on each level above the garage.
- There is an established pattern 
    for the rooflines and that pattern is consistent.
- The owners of the property share 
    a home office and telecommute so the 4thfloor is quite important 
    for this family.
- The project will not obstruct the 
    views of the neighbors.
ACTION:           Take DR and eliminate 4thfloor.  Sponsor 
    can apply for a variance.
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
20.        2000.828D                                                                     
                        (WONG: 558-6381)
98 PENNSYLVANIA 
    AVENUE (aka  1000 17th STREET)- west side, between 7th and 17th Streets, Lot 002 in Assessor’s Block 3948 
    - Request for Discretionary Review on Building Permit Application No. 2000.03.06.3616 
    - The proposalis to construct a new four-story, 38,522 square foot 
    building, including 14,528 occupied square feet of bulk retail and 14,311 
    occupied square feet of office use, of which approx. 3,600 is incidental storage 
    space.  The proposed structure will provide 39 off-street parking spaces, 
    accessed from 17th Street, while loading will have access from Pennsylvania 
    Avenue.  The subject property falls within an M-2/IPZ (Heavy Industrial/Industrial 
    Protection Zone) zoning and a 50-X height/bulk district.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation:Take Discretionary Review and approve 
    the project with modifications.
SPEAKER(S):    None
ACTION:           Without hearing, continued Indefinitely.
AYES:               Baltimore, Chinchilla, Fay, Joe, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
21.        2001.0275D                                                                    
                      (MARTIN: 558-6616)
553 ARKANSAS 
    STREET-east side between 20th and 22nd Streets, Lot 050 in Assessor’s 
    Block 4099.  Mandatory Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application 
    No. 200101270755, proposing to convert the existing three dwelling unit building 
    into one single family dwelling to be owner-occupied, in an RH-2 (Residential, 
    House, Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary 
    Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and disapprove the proposal.
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Richard Morrison – Project Architect
- This is primarily a single-family neighborhood.  Approving this merger 
    will bring the project within the prevailing use of the neighborhood.
- The city will not loose a unit by 
    this merger. Last year one unit was eliminated legally.
- This project has neighborhood support.
- Many of the neighbors have signed 
    petitions and letters supporting this merger.
- This will be a benefit to the neighborhood.
(+) April BaSaing
- She is a first-time homeowner with 
    a family of six.
- They are currently living in a two-bedroom apartment.  Their plans are 
    to reside in this home and be able to raise their kids.
- The merger will allow for their 
    children to have their own rooms.
- She is concerned about having kitchens 
    in children's bedrooms.
(+) Peter Vander 
    Sterre
- He is a general contractor and has 
    been working in San Francisco for many years.
- He would like to state that the 
    use of this building is for a single-family home.
- The kitchens do not have enough ventilation.  Since 1961, this building 
    has been  chopped  up to have more units.
- Currently the law says that this building should serve 3 households or 
    3 couples; in other words 6 people.  Yet there is a family living here with 
    children who require space.
- This will grant a family the ability 
    to live together.
ACTION:           Take DR and allow for two dwelling units.
AYES:               Baltimore, Joe
NAYES:            Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
ACTION:           Do not take DR and approve the 3-unit merger.
AYES:               Chinchilla, Fay, Lim, Salinas, Theoharis
NAYES:            Baltimore, Joe
G.         PUBLIC COMMENT
At this time, members of the public 
    may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that are within 
    the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda items.  With 
    respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission will be 
    afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.  When 
    the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which members 
    of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the public 
    hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised during 
    the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.  Each member of the public may 
    address the Commission for up to three minutes.
The Brown Act forbids a commission 
    from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted agenda, 
    including those items raised at public comment.  In response to public comment, 
    the commission is limited to:
(1) Responding to statements made 
    or questions posed by members of the public; or
(2) Requesting staff to report back 
    on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or
(3) Directing staff to place the item on a future 
    agenda.  (Government Code Section 54954.2(a))
SPEAKERS:  None
Adjournment: 7:40 p.m.
THE DRAFT MINUTES WERE PROPOSED FOR ADOPTION AT THE REGULAR MEETING OF 
    THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON