10. 2001.911E (J. NAVARRETE: (415) 558-5975)
GOLDEN GATE PARK CONCOURSE AUTHORITY PROJECTS-Certification of the Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR)- The site is between the California Academy of Sciences and the M.H. de Young Museum in Golden Gate Park, called the Music Concourse area.  In 1998, voters of San Francisco approved Proposition J, Golden Gate Park Revitalization Act, to improve the landscape and pedestrian environment of the Music Concourse area.  Phase I of the proposed project would include an underground parking facility of 800 to 1,000 spaces at the Music Concourse, surface improvements, and transportation improvements in the Concourse area, and throughout Golden Gate Park, as described in Proposition J.  Proposition J requires removal of surface parking spaces from the Concourse area, and in locations throughout the Park, equivalent to the number of spaces provided in the new underground parking facility upon completion of the parking facility. In addition to the underground parking facility, the Transportation Implementation Plan includes the following elements: intra-park shuttle, cultural shuttle, traffic calming, parking management, bicycle and pedestrian improvements, road closures, and MUNI service improvements. Phase II of the project would entail construction of an Underground Through Street connecting Fulton Street to Middle Drive East, which would allow for through traffic to be restricted or eliminated from Tea Garden Drive and Academy Drive. The proposed underground roadway would ramp down at Eighth Avenue at Kennedy Drive and would extend beneath the east end of the Concourse and alongside the east side of the California Academy of Sciences, where it would ramp up to Middle Drive East.  This underground street would not provide access into the parking garage and would be intended to reduce cross-park vehicular traffic through the Music Concourse.  The project site is within the P (Public Use) zoning district and within an OS (Open Space) Height and Bulk District; Assessor's Block 1700, Lot 1.
Since publication of the Draft EIR, the Executive Director of the Project Sponsor, Concourse Authority, notified the Planning Department that the preferred project as analyzed in the DEIR has been revised.  The project, as revised, consists of Phase I, the Underground Parking Facility, and the Transportation Improvement Measures ("TIP"), both as analyzed as part of the preferred project in the DEIR.  Phase II, the Underground Through Street, has been severed from the project and removed from further consideration.  As a consequence, the preferred project, as revised, is Phase I and the TIP elements only.  This project was identified in the DEIR as Alternative B.  With the severance of Phase II, the project, as revised, has no physical environmental impact on the historic character of the Rhododendron Dell, an area of Golden Gate Park considered individually eligible for listing on the California Register of Historical Resources.  As a result, the project, as revised, has eliminated the significant unavoidable impact to this resource that was identified in the DEIR.
Preliminary Recommendation: Certify the EIR as a Final EIR.  Please note the public review period for the DEIR ended at 5:00 pm,