9. 2003.0449L (M. SNYDER: (415) 575-6891)
2924-2948  16THSTREET- the Labor Temple / Redstone Building, northeast corner of 16th Street and Capp Street, Lot 14 in Assessor's Block 3553 --  Request for the Planning Commission to adopt a Resolution approving the designation of the Labor Temple / Redstone Building as Landmark No. 238, and recommending to the Board of Supervisors that they approve the designation of the Labor Temple / Redstone Building as Landmark No. 238.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Tim Kelley, President of the SF Landmarks Board
- Pleased and proud to bring this forward.  This is the second in what he hopes will be many more labor oriented landmarks in San Francisco.  Hopes the Commission will join the Landmarks Board in supporting this and reaching out to many groups that have been unrepresented in the preservation program to date.
(+) Betty Traynor, Representing the tenants in the building
- From the time the tenants association was founded, it has been our goal to landmark the building because we recognized its history.  We have [broad] support for this, and we look forward to a big celebration.
ACTION: Approved
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, W. Lee
ABSENT: Feldstein and S. Lee
MOTION: 16638
10. 2003.0376C (M. SMITH: (415) 558-6322)
5630 MISSION STREET- north side, between Naglee and Whipple Avenues, Lot 012 in Assessor's Block 7098 - Request by Verizon Wireless for Conditional Use Authorization under Planning Code Section 711.83 to install eight (8) antennas on the rooftop and associated equipment cabinets within the interior storage room of a motel (The Mission Inn) located in a NC-2 (Small-Scale Neighborhood Commercial District) and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  Per the City and County of San Francisco's Wireless Telecommunications Services (WTS) Facilities Siting Guidelines the proposal is a location Preference 4 site as it is a wholly commercial building within a NC-2 District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 24, 2003)
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Jason Smith, Representing Verizon Wireless
- Described the project and explained why they need the requested equipment.
ACTION: Approved as amended:  six panel antennas and one GPS antenna.
AYES: Antonini, Boyd, Hughes, W. Lee
NAYES: Bradford Bell
ABSENT: Feldstein and S. Lee
MOTION: 16639
11. 2003.0705C (T. TAM: (415) 558-6325)
3981 ALEMANY BOULEVARD- south side, between Worchester Street and St. Charles Avenue, Lot 9 in Assessor's Block 7126A-Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Section 713.67 for the establishment of a video rental and sale business (Hollywood Video), approximately 5,900 square feet in size, operating between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight.  The property is in an NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial - Shopping Center) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Steve Vettel, Representing the Project Sponsor
- Gave a powerpoint presentation on the revitalized shopping center and demonstrated the desirability and need for this project request.
(-) Claire Sanchez
- The windows of her home overlook the proposed Hollywood Video site.  The hours of operation are un-needed in our neighborhood.  They will only bring large gatherings of teenagers.  The additional noise and lighting are not conducive to our residential community.  They had an agreement last week with Hollywood Video for two backlit signs, now yesterday they have changed it.  Who's to say it will not be altered after they make an agreement today?
(-) Dennis Sanchez
- Concerned about traffic, parking, illuminated signage, hours of operation, and security.  We reached an agreement with them on signage.  But last night they changed it.
(-) Stephen Heide, METNA
- This is a totally inappropriate use of the center, and I'm very much against this in our neighborhood.
(-) Nina Godinez
- I live at 3976 Alemany Blvd. And was distressed to hear that Hollywood Video would move into the vacant retail space.  I am very concerned about their hours of operations.  I am also concerned that they have now altered our agreement on the signage.
(-) Leroy Gullette
- I live directly across from the proposed site.  There are four main issues:  The drop box was the only issue agreed upon;  people are concerned about traffic because with Alemany in front of the store without a left turn...; parking spaces-people don't use the spaces for the apartment building because they are charged for them; the signage was agreed on during the meeting, but now they have changed it around.  Most important is the hours [of operation].
(+) Rick Bartlett, District Manager for Hollywood Video
- They do have stores that close at 10 p.m. during the week, but all [his] stores close at midnight on the weekends.  Our stores are family stores.  We provide a service for the community.  We don't have a lot of teenage problems.  But any problems are addressed immediately with the local authority.  We have a wide selection of items in all categories.  We are here to work with the community as much as we can.
-
(-) Herbert Panaszewiez
- I oppose the video store at the proposed location.  Albertson's supermarket is already renting and selling videos at Ocean view Village.  Traffic and parking are a concern.  Security on the property is haphazard.
(-) Carina Brewer
- I live at 201 Chester, about a block away from the proposed site.  This [Hollywood Video] is not desired by the community.  This center was dropped on the neighborhood.  This is not something that was requested by our neighborhood.  The hours of operation are a big concern by the folks that live in this neighborhood.  Security is an issue with this center.  Parking is a problem with what they have designed.  Not opposed to Hollywood Video coming in if they can abide by the neighborhood.
(+) Alastair MacTaggart, Emerald Fund
- We are no longer the owners of this site, but we were the developers.  With all due respect, "I" did go to the community meetings and listened when they told us to bring in an independent video store.  Our broker contacted all independent video store owners west of Twin Peaks.  We tried to find anybody who would go in there.  We tried to find a restaurant.  Despite what the neighborhood may think, this is not the easiest area of the city to rent retail in.  75,000 out or roughly 90,000 square feet in this center is already open to midnight.  So this will not be the only store open.  The incremental traffic we're talking about if fairly minimal.  We have adequate parking per the planning guidelines, and we have 24 hour security in our parking lot.  When the neighbors told us they didn't like the firm managing the security, we changed it.  We live in a city and I don't think there will be an enormous amount of traffic.
(+) Oz Erickson, Emerald Fund
- We were brought in by OMI Neighbors In Action to redevelop this center.  We were supported by all four major neighborhood associations when we did this.  METNA was formed after we did this.  We have made every effort to make this place a really nice place.  This is an urban center..., and to make it a success we need these tenants.  We made every effort to bring in an independent video store.  The people who live in the center want this video store.  They also want the restaurants to come in.  On the hours of operation, we are talking about 10 p.m. to midnight.  There is no traffic.
(-) Mark Christensen, Merced Extension Triangle Neighborhood Association
- The former Commission approved this.  There are three stores in operation in this center:  Albertson's, Rite Aid, and Post Net.  These stores are setback more that 100 feet from Alemany.  Only Albertson's is open until midnight.  Rite Aid closes by 10 p.m. and Post Net closes earlier in the evening.  Also, as you heard, other Hollywood Video stores close by 10 p.m.  We believe that 10 p.m. is reasonable.  We agreed to two signs, now they want three signs.  We hope that if you grant this application, you go back to the original signage and that you approve the hours of operation to close no later than 10 p.m.
(-) Joe O'Donaghue
- I agree with Mr. Christensen.  Over 1,000 people opposed this proposal when it was first presented over four years ago.  The developers intensified the use.  Developers have an obligation of good neighbor policy. Hollywood Video made an agreement to have two signs.  Do not allow them to go back on that agreement.  When there is an agreement, we all have an obligation to keep to that agreement.  If it is going to be broken, then we should continue the meeting and go back to negotiations.  The hours of operation should be kept to 10 p.m.  We were guilty four years ago and didn't speak out.  Now we are [speaking out].
(+) Markus Welcher, Construction Manager for Hollywood Video
- The reason for changing the signage is because Hollywood corporate decided this. We have eliminated the A-1 sign shown on your site plans.  We will agree to eliminate that sign and add the A-2.  So we are only proposing two signs at this point.  [He also talked about what the B sign would look like at night time by showing a color photo (the illumination component was not clear)].  There is approximately 90 parking spaces under the residential units that will become available when these major tenants open.  There is 24 hour security provided by the landlord.
-
ACTION: Approved as amended:  1) The hours of operation will be between 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 10:00 a.m. to 12 midnight Friday and Saturday; 2) Two wall signs in the locations designated A.1 and B on Drawing 03-0433 in Exhibit B plans shall be permitted; no sign shall be permitted in the location designated A.2 on Drawing 03-0433 or on façade of the store directly abutting Alemany Blvd.  All sign illumination shall be turned off when the store closes in the evening; 3) The property owner and tenant shall make good faith efforts to assure there is adequate security during store operating hours to prevent disruptive behavior in the Center's parking lot.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, W. Lee
ABSENT: Feldstein and S. Lee
MOTION: 16640
12. 2002.1105C (T. TAM: (415) 558-6325)
4039 18TH STREET- south side, between Hartford and Noe Streets, Lot 81 in Assessor's Block 3583 - Request for a Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 186, 715, and 151, to allow (1) conversion of an existing nonconforming large fast-food restaurant (Hot n' Hunky's) to a full-service restaurant, (2) demolition of an existing two-bedroom unit on the second floor, and (3) addition of one new dwelling unit without providing any off-street parking.  The property is in the Castro Street Neighborhood Commercial District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approval with Conditions
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Alan Toma, Project Architect
- Gave a brief 12 year history of the project sponsor's business in the neighborhood, and his vision and desire to continue that business and expand it at the proposed site.
(-) Alex Blanchard
- We are the sole tenants of 4041 and the project sponsor has not considered the impact on our lives, the local economy, and affordable housing.  The proposed plan would negatively impact us by raising our rent by 50% when we have to move out.  The project will cause noise problems, and the City will lose affordable housing.  The new units will not be under rent control and will not be affordable.  It will also cause parking problems.  When the project sponsor went out seeking signatures of support, the community was mislead into thinking that they were only supporting the restaurant conversion, not the whole building.
(-) Ana Martinex
I live with Alex.  18thand Castro is really congested now and a full service restaurant will only make it worse.  I am also very concerned about the loss of affordable housing.  It is going to be really hard to find another unit that gives us the space we have now at our current rent.
ACTION: Intent to approve the restaurant conversion but not the residential conversion.  Final action scheduled on September 11, 203.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes
NAYES: W. Lee
ABSENT: Feldstein and S. Lee
13. 2002.1306C (J. PURVIS: (415) 558-6354)
1155 TENNESSEE STREET- east side south of 22ndStreet; Lot 044 in Assessor's Block 4172 - Request for Conditional Use Authorization under Planning Code Section 711.38, to convert a dwelling unit into office space on the second floor of a three-unit, three-story-over-garage building, within an NC-2 (Small-Scale Neighborhood Commercial) District and a 50-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation:  Disapproval
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Shawn Gorman, Project Architect
- Explained the desire and need of the project sponsor to convert vacant dwelling space-that was once occupied by the sponsor-into needed office space for the sponsor's existing on-site business.  This is a small family business and is an asset in San Francisco.  There are other compatible uses in the area.  The approval will not change the building.
(+) Regan Carol, Project Sponsor
- It was stated that the neighborhood was largely residential in character.  That is not true.  [ He showed various photos of commercial or not-residential uses in the neighborhood that would complement the proposed use of his property.]  He walked the neighborhood and presented a signed list of people supporting what he wants to do with his business on his property.
(+) Joe O'Donaghue
- What's important about this project is that there is no tenant displacement whatsoever.  It has always been occupied by the sponsor.
-
ACTION: Intent to approve.  Final action scheduled on September 25, 2003.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Hughes, W. Lee
NAYES: Boyd
ABSENT: Feldstein and S. Lee
14. 2003.0440C (D. DIBARTOLO: (415) 558-6291)
845 JACKSON STREET- south side between Stockton and Powell Streets; Lot 041 in Assessor's Block 0192 - Request by Verizon Wireless for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Section 812.82 of the Planning Code to install twelve panel antennas and associated equipment cabinets on the roof of the existing 70-foot tall ("New Chinese Hospital") building, located in a CR-NC (Chinatown Residential Neighborhood Commercial) District and a 65-N Height and Bulk District. Per the City and County of San Francisco's Wireless Telecommunications Services (WTS) Facilities Siting Guidelines the proposal is a location Preference 1 site, as the structure is a publicly used hospital.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions.
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Jason Smith, Representing Verizon Wireless
-    Described the project and explained why they need the requested equipment.
(+) Kenny Silverman, Verizon Wireless RF Engineer
- Responding to the question of why Verizon needs 12 antennas.  The 12 antennas will address our need today for six antennas, and because of the dense populated area, the other six will address our future needs.  We wanted to address our immediate need and what we feel we would need in the very near future without coming back to the Commission.
MOTION: To approve six (6) antennas
AYES: Antonini, Boyd, W. Lee
NAYES: Bradford Bell and Hughes
ABSENT: Feldstein and S. Lee
RESULT: The motion failed
ACTION: Approved four (4) antennas
AYES: Antonini, Boyd, Hughes, W. Lee
NAYES: Bradford Bell
ABSENT: Feldstein and S. Lee
MOTION No. 16641