12. (D. LIM: (415) 558-6547)
ETHICS COMMISSION REQUEST FOR PLANNING COMMISSION 
            AND DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL INCOMPATIBLE ACTIVITIES STATEMENT- Commission 
            consideration of adoption of the draft Department Incompatible Activities 
            Statement for submission to the Ethics Commission.
Preliminary Recommendation: Adoption
SPEAKER(S): None
ACTION:
Adopt with modifications to the Statement 
                  of Incompatible Activities Planning Department/Commission document:
1) Page 1, Section 1, second bullet point: 
                  No officer or employee shall participate in any activity or 
                  enterprise where income, profit or other gain is or may be accrued, 
                  which couldadverselyreflect on the honor or efficiency 
                  of the City service, or be contrary to the best interest of 
                  the City service in any respect.
2) Page 2, Section I, fourth bullet point: 
                  Planning Department officers and employees may not work on plans, 
                  policies, applications or vases for review within 500 feet of 
                  where they reside or have a financial interestwhere the 
                  affected staff has no different interests than a member of the 
                  general public.
3) Page 3, Section III, third bullet point: 
                  No officer or employee shall solicit or accept any gratuity 
                  in money or other valuable thing, either directly or indirectly, 
                  from any subordinate or employee or from any candidate or applicant 
                  for a position as employee or subordinate under him or herexcept 
                  where those gifts would be customary under certain occasions 
                  such as holidays, birthdays and other like events.
4) Page 4, Section V, first bullet point: 
                  Employees of the Planning Department may not engage in outside 
                  activity that requires absence from the office during the regular 
                  work day on more than an occasional basis.Other than explicitly 
                  written permission by the Director of Planning that benefit 
                  the employee or the department.
5) add a fourth bullet point:Any outside 
                  employment shall be subject to the explicitly written approval 
                  of the director of Planning as set forth in Civil Service Section.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. 
            Lee, W. Lee
MOTION: 16810
13a. 2004.0213CV (K. McGEE: (415) 558-6367)
52-60 6THSTREET- northwestern 
            corner at Jessie Street; Lot 6 in Assessor's Block 3703 -Request 
            for Conditional Use Authorizationto allow the intensification 
            of a nonconforming nighttime entertainment use, pursuant to Planning 
            Code Section 181. The existing facility ("Club Six"), located 
            on the ground and basement levels, is a nightclub, bar, and lounge, 
            and proposes to expand by adding 2,450 square feet at the ground floor 
            and 2,042 square feet at the basement level, resulting in a total 
            of 8,647 square feet for the establishment. The subject property is 
            in an RSD (Residential / Service) Mixed-Use District with an 85-X 
            Height and Bulk district.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Mark Rene - Representing the Project Sponsor
- It is noted on the materials that 6thand Market had been the premier district for theater use after World 
            War II, then there was a decline. Since 1990 the area started a late 
            night revival.
- 6thStreet after 11:00 p.m. is one 
            of the premier districts now for late night entertainment.
- These types of businesses create a safer area.
- Staff has recommended approval with conditions. 
            However, he would recommend that the hours change from 5 p.m. to 4 
            a.m. on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights and nights 
            before National Holidays.
(+) John Peterson - Project Architect
- He displayed a photograph of the street where 
            the bar has been located since the 1950s.
- He displayed a floor plan from 1947.
- They are working with the redevelopment agency 
            to undergo façade improvements.
- He displayed a photograph of the interior of 
            the bar.
- Plans include acoustic abatement.
- There will be a venue for video artists both 
            locally and nationally.
- There will be several video screens.
(+) Tony Ineem
- He is the owner of the hotel adjacent to the 
            bar.
- He does not have any complaints about the bar.
- He has a good relationship with the owner.
(+) Angel Cruz
- The bar will include art and live music.
- There are interesting challengers on 6thStreet but they have managed to overcome these.
- Many people nationally have come to the bar.
(+) Doc Nially
- He owns a business across the street from the 
            bar.
- It has not been easy to have a successful business 
            on 6thStreet.
- He has worked with Mr. Cruz to fight crime and 
            prostitution and make the area safe.
- He believes that approval of the bar would have 
            a positive impact on that street.
(+) Roger Gordon - Executive Director of Urban 
            Solutions from the Redevelopment Agency
- Mr. Cruz is a member of the Board of Directors.
- He has been working with the Redevelopment Agency 
            on a project called Six on Sixth.
- Our goal is to help them turn the corner from 
            Market Street and replace the empty store fronts on 6thstreet.
- Many businesses on 6thStreet have 
            been doing very well.
- This project is a diversification of use.
(+) John Boyan - Late night Coalition
- They are trying to promote businesses that coexist 
            with their neighbors.
- Club Six was a pioneer.
- The club has existed with this new owner for 
            five years now without any problems.
- Limiting the entertainment for certain days 
            of the week would hurt the business.
- Many entertainment venues exist with resident 
            units above.
(+) Gerald Sampson
- He is a resident of 6thStreet.
- He knows the owner and there have not been any 
            problems with the club.
- Sixth Street has been very bad for many years, 
            but the club has helped out a lot.
(+) Erin Seto
- She is a patron of Club Six.
- She really enjoys going there.
- She supports this project.
(+) Liam Shy
- He is a member of the Youth Commission representing 
            ages 12 to 23.
- They have not voted on this issue but have done 
            a lot of analysis on work and entertainment around San Francisco. 
            They have actually passed a resolution declaring San Francisco in 
            a health crisis for the lack of venues for young people.
- The Youth Commission is in support of expanding 
            entertainment venues.
(+) Minish Kaina
- He is an artist and a producer.
- He has held events at Club Six.
- There have been international artists come as 
            well.
- Expanding the club would help San Francisco 
            in it's artistic aspect and will place us on the map.
(+) Jay Fonce
- He has known Mr. Cruz since 1984.
- He has many endeavors in the art community.
- In the last few years, he has helped Mr. Cruz 
            upgrade the exterior image of the club.
- There have not been any graffiti on the murals 
            outside of the bar.
(+) C. Cheng
- He has worked with Mr. Cruz on booking events.
- A lot of people have said that they are not 
            sure about going into this neighborhood. The ones that decide to come 
            realize that they can keep coming back to other events.
(+) Terrance Allen - President of the Entertainment 
            Commission
- With the formation of the Entertainment Commission, 
            the Planning Commission can differ many of the responsibilities they 
            have had related to entertainment.
- The conditions that are before the Commission 
            are not from the Entertainment Commission but from the Police Commission.
- They want to standardize, across the City, the 
            way entertainment venues relate to their neighboring businesses and 
            residential uses.
ACTION: Approved with Modifications to the Conditions 
            of Approval:
1) Item 2: This authorization permits the 
                  facility to remain open and offer amplified entertainment and 
                  dancing only between the hours of 5 p.m. and4a.m. on 
                  Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights (i.e. Saturday 
                  and Sunday early-mornings)and nights before nationally recognized 
                  U.S. Holidays.
2) Delete Item 20.
3) Wherever Police Commission is stated, 
                  add Entertainment Commission.
4) Item 17:The establishment shall provide 
                  adequate parking for patrons free of charge or at a rate or 
                  manner that would encourage use of parking by establishment 
                  patrons. Adequate signage shall be well-lit and prominently 
                  displayed to advertise the availability and location of such 
                  parking resources for establishment patrons.The establishment 
                  should provide adequate signage which shall be well-lit and 
                  proximately displayed to advertise the availability and location 
                  of parking resources for the establishment patrons.
4) Establishment may include the ground 
                  floor.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. 
            Lee, W. Lee
MOTION: 16811
13b. 2004.0213CV(K. McGEE: (415) 558-6367)
52-60 6th STREET- northwestern corner 
            at Jessie Street; Lot 6 in Assessor's Block 
            3703 -Request for Variance -Section 151 of the Planning Code 
            requires one parking space be provided for each 200 square feet of 
            occupied floor area, where the occupied floor area exceeds 5,000 square 
            feet. The proposal to expand the project results in a total of 8,647 
            square feet for the establishment. The project expands the existing 
            use beyond the 5,000 square foot parking threshold and would require 
            52 parking spaces. The project does not propose to add any parking 
            spaces and therefore requires an off-street parking variance. The 
            subject property is in an RSD (Residential/Service) Mixed-Use District 
            with an 85-X Height and Bulk district.
SPEAKER(S): Same as those listed for item 13a.
ACTION: Zoning Administrator closed the public 
            hearing and granted the variance.
14a. 2003.1241CV (M. WOODS: (415) 558-6315)
1447-1449 LOMBARD STREET- south side between 
            Van Ness Avenue and Franklin Street; Lot 104, in Assessor's Block 
            0503 -Request for Conditional Use authorizationunder Planning 
            Code Sections 161(j) and 303 to waive the two-car parking requirement 
            for the proposed conversion of office spaces to two dwelling units 
            on the second and third floors of an existing three-story building 
            with a full-service restaurant on the ground floor. The site is within 
            an NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate-Scale) Zoning District 
            and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with 
                Conditions
(Continued from Regular Meeting of May 6, 2004)
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Pat Buskovitch
- This building has been vacant since 1998.
- The owner of the building passed away this morning, 
            butt his daughter would still like to go forward with the project.
- The building cannot be rented for office.
- Most of the buildings in the area are commercial.
- There are a number of parking lots in the neighborhood.
- The building is on a major transit line.
- There is plenty of open space in the front of 
            the building.
- The project will add housing units to the City's 
            housing stock.
ACTION: Approved
AYES: Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. Lee, W. 
            Lee
EXCUSED: Antonini
MOTION: 16812
14b. 2003.1241CV(M. WOODS: (415) 558-6315)
1447-1449 LOMBARD STREET- south side between 
            Van Ness Avenue and Franklin Street; Lot 104, in Assessor's Block 
            0503 -Request for rear yard and non-complying structure variancesfor the proposed conversion of office spaces to two dwelling units 
            on the second and third floors of an existing three-story building 
            with a full-service restaurant on the ground floor. The proposed conversion 
            would not alter the size of the existing building. Because the existing 
            building already encroaches into the required rear yard, it is considered 
            a legal, non-complying structure, and the conversion of the two upper 
            floors from commercial use to residential use triggers these variances. 
            The site is within an NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, Moderate-Scale) 
            Zoning District and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of May 6, 2004)
SPEAKER(S): Same as those listed for item 14a.
ACTION: Zoning Administrator closed the public 
            hearing and granted the variance.
15a. 2002.0927!EKXCV (J. MILLER: (415) 558-6344)
1340-1390 MISSION STREET- northeast corner 
            at Tenth Street (with additional frontage on Jessie and Ninth Streets), 
            Lots 13, 26 and 27 in Assessor's Block 3508, in a C-3-G (Downtown 
            General Commercial) District and in 120-X, 150-S and 200-S Height 
            and Bulk Districts -Review under Planning Code Section 309of a new building, variously eight and ten stories in height, containing 
            approximately 231 units of affordable family housing (127 units) and 
            senior housing (104 units) plus ground-floor space for community use, 
            arts activities and retail use, and second-floor space for housing 
            support services and building management, including requests for exceptions 
            to Planning Code requirements for rear-yard area (Section 309(a)(1)) 
            and ground-level wind currents (Section 309(a)(2)).
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Merle Malakoff - Project Sponsor
- They are the largest producer of affordable 
            housing in the City.
- They are proposing 100 percent affordability 
            for all 231 units.
- The variances requested are very minor.
- They are intending to provide HUD opportunity.
- There is a strong commitment to provide support 
            services.
- They are working with the City's Department 
            of Health to serve some seniors that have been homeless.
(+) Earl Rogers
- Chaplain of San Francisco Rescue Mission.
- As people move up or forward on the housing 
            ladder, starter or more affordable housing opportunities for others 
            are provided.
ACTION: Approved with Amendments: include CEQA 
            findings and conditions; include standard subordination language.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. 
            Lee, W. Lee
MOTION: 16813
15b. 2002.0927!EKXCV (J. MILLER: (415) 558-6344)
1340-1390 MISSION STREET- northeast corner 
            at Tenth Street (with additional frontage on Jessie and Ninth Streets), 
            Lots 13, 26 and 27 in Assessor's Block 3508, in a C-3-G (Downtown 
            General Commercial) District and in 120-X, 150-S and 200-S Height 
            and Bulk Districts -Request for authorization of a Conditional 
            Use,pursuant to Planning Code Section 124(f), for additional 
            square footage (to be devoted to affordable housing) above the 6.0 
            to 1 floor area ratio (approximately 6.2 to 1) established for the 
            C-3-G zoning district subject to the limitations set forth therein 
            in conjunction with the construction of approximately 231 units of 
            affordable family and senior housing plus ancillary ground- and second-floor 
            uses.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKER(S): Same as those listed for item 15a.
ACTION: Approved
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. 
            Lee, W. Lee
MOTION: 16814
15c. 2002.0927!EKXCV(J. MILLER: (415) 558-6344)
1340-1390 MISSION STREET- northeast corner at Tenth Street (with 
        additional frontage on Jessie and Ninth Streets), Lots 13, 26 and 27 in 
        Assessor's Block 3508, in a C-3-G (Downtown General Commercial) District 
        and in 120-X, 150-S and 200-S Height and Bulk Districts -Dwelling-unit-exposure 
        and lot-width Variancessought in conjunction with new construction 
        of approximately 231 units of affordable family and senior housing plus 
        ancillary ground- and second-floor uses, for dwelling units with their 
        exposure onto an interior courtyard with dimensions insufficient to meet 
        the standards for dwelling-unit exposure contained in Planning Code Section 
        140, and to re-subdivide the subject Lot 13 to sever a portion (which 
        is already developed with a building) with a width of less than 25 feet, 
        the minimum width established by Planning Code Section 121(d).
SPEAKER(S): Same as those listed for item 15a.
ACTION: Zoning Administrator closed the public hearing and granted the 
        variances.
16. 2004.0306C (T. WANG: (415) 558-6335)
50 THOMAS MORE WAY- on the southwest corner of Thomas More and 
        Brotherhood Ways; Lots 010 and 011 in Assessor's Block 7380 -Request 
        for Conditional Use authorizationpursuant to Planning Code Sections 
        209.3 (f) and (g) and 304 for a Planned Unit Development (PUD) to allow 
        St. Thomas More School: (1) construction of a gymnasium and a classroom 
        building; (2) addition of a preschool of 35 children; (3) an increase 
        in enrollment from up to 300 students to up to 350 students; (4) seeking 
        exceptions from rear yard requirements; (5) relocation of a portable classroom 
        building to another location on campus; and (6) amending two previous 
        Conditional Use authorizations related to the school in an RH-1(D) (Residential, 
        House, One-Family, Detached Dwelling) District and a 40-X Height and Bulk 
        District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Conditions
SPEAKER(S):
(+) Joe Elsbernd - Principal of St. Thomas 
            Moore - Project Sponsor
- There are currently kindergarten students in 
            mobile classrooms.
- They have done a lot of remodeling to accommodate 
            the growth of the school.
- They would like to have a permanent location 
            for their kindergarten.
- They also would like to open a pre-school.
(+) Steve Wong - Project Sponsor
- They are very excited about the job.
- This project provides a much-needed gymnasium 
            for the school.
- They have met the parking requirements.
ACTION: Approval
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. 
            Lee, W. Lee
MOTION: 16815
17. 2004.0302T (P. LORD: (415) 558-6311)
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USES NO LESS THAN 1,000 
            FEET FROM SCHOOLS, CHILD CARE FACILITIES AND PLAYGROUNDS-Require that Adult Entertainment Uses 
            are no less than 1,000 feet from schools, child care facilities and 
            playgrounds -Consideration of an Ordinance amending San Francisco 
            Planning Code Sections 221, 790.36 and 890.36to provide that, 
            where permitted, adult entertainment uses must be no less than 1,000 
            feet from public and private schools, child care facilities and Recreation 
            and Parks Department children's playgrounds, and making finding of 
            consistency with the priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1 
            and the General Plan.
Preliminary Recommendation: Approval
SPEAKER(S):
(+/-) Terrence Allen - President of the Entertainment 
            Commission
- Why is this coming forward at this time? This 
            legislation needs to be understood.
- This legislation came forward as a "knee 
            jerk" reaction to the change in programming at a club located 
            at 220 Jones Street as opposed to a well thought out piece of legislation.
- He does not know all of the details of what 
            will be amended.
- There has to be an equanimity into the law.
- The definition of "adult entertainment" 
            needs to be defined.
- He has the third draft of this legislation available.
(+) Earl Jogers - Chaplain San Francisco Rescue 
            Mission
- The City has almost studiously avoided regulating 
            this industry and this needs to be done.
(+) Bill Barnes
- If the goal is to not have children near these 
            adult entertainment venues, then some guidelines need to be established 
            for both.
ACTION: Adopt with Modifications: 1) Define what 
            adult definition is; 2) a school (K-12, private or public) cannot 
            locate within 1000 of an existing adult entertainment facility; 3) 
            shall not be considered a non conforming use under Section 180 of 
            the Planning Code and may therefore be intensified or expanded; 4) 
            childcare facilities shall make themselves known regardless of size; 
            5) notification shall be given to residents of the neighborhood and 
            6) re-examination of fees.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. 
            Lee, W. Lee
MOTION: 16816
18. 2003.1254D (E. TOPE: (415) 558-6316)
170 ST. GERMAIN AVENUE- north side at 
            Glenbrook Avenue; Lot 009 in Block 2708 -Request for Discretionary 
            Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2003.07.31.0905, proposing 
            to construct a one story horizontal and a one story vertical addition 
            to an existing two story over basement single family dwelling in an 
            RH-1 (D) (Residential, House, One-Family, Detached Dwelling) District 
            and a 40-X Height and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Take 
            discretionary review and approve the permit with modifications.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of May 6, 2004)
SPEAKER(S):
Re: Continuance
Walter Kapland - Representing Discretionary 
            Review Requestor
- There is a substantial number of neighbors that 
            would like to have a continuance since they were only able to meet 
            with the project sponsor just a few evenings ago.
- The Planning process works well when things 
            are resolved outside of Planning Commission hearings.
- Sutro Tower agreed to do a seismic retrofit, 
            which will be finished this weekend. This project is not good for 
            the neighborhood.
- He asked the Commission to request another meeting 
            with the neighbors and the project sponsor to talk about height, bulk, 
            etc.
Jeremy Paul - Representing Project Sponsor
- This item has been continued several times.
- It is time to get this project resolved.
(The above comments were taken under the ITEMS 
            PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE category. It was decided to address that 
            question at the call of the item.)
Re: The question of Continuance was again heard 
            at the call of the item.
Walter Kapland
- He submitted a copy of a letter from Paul Negalscue 
            who is withdrawing his support of the project.
- All the people who had supported the project 
            have withdrawn their support.
- He believes that this project can and should 
            be approved in a modified way in the future.
- To have a hearing now would open scabs and put 
            "salt on wounds." This project will not allow for neighbors 
            to talk and find solutions.
Jeremy Paul - Project Sponsor
- During the brief discussion that was held before 
            the hearing, there was mention that the Commission had recently received 
            information therefore justifying a continuance.
- There is no new information. The comments from 
            the neighbors were filed on April 20. A lot of staff time has been 
            spent on this. There is no time to get involved any more.
ACTION: Without hearing, item continued to July 
            22, 2004
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. 
            Lee, W. Lee
19. 2004.0071D (B. FU: (415) 558-6613)
406 MISSISSIPPI STREET- west side, between 
            19th and 20th Streets; Lot 001A in Assessor's Block 4065 -Request 
            for Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application No. 2003.08.11.1725 
            proposing to construct a one-story vertical addition to the existing 
            one-story over garage building in an RH-2 (Residential, House, Two-Family) 
            District with a 40-X Height and Bulk Designation.
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary 
            Review and approve the project as submitted.
SPEAKER(S):
(-) Gayle Keck - Discretionary Review Requestor
- They are in complete agreement that if the project 
            sponsor agrees to install a skylight in their home, they would agree 
            with the project.
- They have not received a response regarding 
            the request to install the skylight.
- She purchased the house about 20 years ago.
- The window in the bathroom is the only window 
            on that side of the house.
- She and her husband had to move away from San 
            Francisco but rented the house.
- The renters are really concerned about the light 
            that will be lost from that window.
- If they were forced to pay for the skylight 
            themselves, they would have to raise the rent and this is something 
            they do not want to do.
(-) Paul Herman
- He read a letter from the tenant that is currently 
            renting the property who requested that a skylight be installed because 
            otherwise the proposed project would block light and air to the bathroom.
(+) Claire Pitcher - Representing Project Sponsor
- The Discretionary Review requestor submitted 
            a bid and the cost for the skylight would be $16,500 - this is not 
            reasonable.
- She requested that the Planning Commission take 
            Discretionary Review and approve the project as presented by the project 
            sponsor.
ACTION: Take Discretionary Review and required 
            the project sponsor to pay up to $3,000 for the installation of a 
            skylight. Payment shall be upon proof of installation.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, W. 
            Lee
NAYES: S. Lee
20. 2004.0164D (W. HASTIE: (415) 
            558-6381)
571-573 MISSOURI STREET- east side 
                  between 20th and Sierra Streets; Lot 28 in Block 4101 -Request 
                  for Discretionary Reviewof Building Permit Application 
                  No. 2003.09.19.5267, proposing to construct a horizontal and 
                  vertical addition to an existing two-family dwelling in an RH-2 
                  (Residential, House, Two-Family) District and a 40-X Height 
                  and Bulk District.
Preliminary Recommendation: Do not take Discretionary 
            Review and Approve the Project as Proposed.
(Continued from Regular Meeting of May 20, 
                2004)
SPEAKER(S):
(-) Susan Taggart
- This Discretionary Review is just about preserving 
            the open space.
- Land for gardens is at a premium.
- They want to keep development into the open 
            space at a minimum.
- Her aunt purchased the house recently so she 
            is very interested in what is built.
- There are no buildings that match the project 
            sponsor's project.
- Because there is a flat roof, the height of 
            the extension would be extremely high.
- Bring the extension back 4 feet or remove about 
            54 feet of living space form the proposed project. Require that all 
            roofs be fire rated and metal railings to be kept as parapets.
- They are not asking to change much.
- We are proposing these very small changes.
(-) Jean Taggart
- She is Susan's aunt and is 85 years old.
- The project would block sunlight to her property 
            and eliminate her privacy.
- Being next to her niece and nephew-in-law makes 
            her very happy.
(-) Lol Hansen
- He lives on the same block where the proposed 
            project will be located.
- The block that they live on has very modest 
            houses.
- Most of the lots there have gardens, trees, 
            shrubs.
- The addition is inappropriate for what is on 
            their block.
- To him, the project was shocking.
- There are also concerns of privacy.
(+) Steven Step - Project Architect
- He displayed a diagram of the proposed project.
- The units are not very large.
- The biggest issue is how they work with the 
            neighborhood and how to appeal to their concerns.
ACTION: Do not take Discretionary Review and approved 
            the project.
AYES: Antonini, Bradford Bell, Boyd, Hughes, S. 
            Lee, W. Lee