The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
9. 
19960013CWP 
(S. AMBATI: (415) 575-9183) 
2016 HOUSING INVENTORY – Informational Presentation - Announcing the publication of 
the 2016 Housing Inventory.  This report is the 47th in the series and describes San 
Francisco’s housing supply.  Housing Inventory data accounts for new housing construction, 
demolitions, and alterations in a consistent format for analysis of housing production 
trends.  Net housing unit gains are reported citywide, by zoning classification, and by 
planning district.  Other areas covered include affordable housing production, 
condominium conversions, and changes to the residential hotel stock.  In addition, a list of 
major housing projects completed and approved for construction in 2016 is provided.  
Report is available for the public at the Planning Department and on the website. 
Preliminary Recommendation:  None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Teresa Ojeda – Introduction  
= Svetha Ambati 
= Peter Cohen – Jobs-Housing Fit 
= Georgia Schuttish – OEWD Report 
ACTION:  
None – Informational  
 
10. 
2016-013551CWP 
(R. TANNER: (415) 575-8730) 
EXCELSIOR & OUTER MISSION NEIGHBORHOOD STRATEGY – This Informational 
Presentation is intended to introduce the Excelsior & Outer Mission Neighborhood 
Strategy.  The presentation will describe the Excelsior & Outer Mission neighborhoods, the 
purpose of the Neighborhood Strategy, and the activities undertaken to date.  In addition, 
the presentation will discuss goals and strategies that have emerged from the public 
engagement process.  For more information, please visit: http://sf-planning.org/excelsior-
outer-mission-neighborhood-strategy. 
Preliminary Recommendation:  None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rachel Tanner – Staff presentation  
+ Suhal Sandoval, Adie to Sup. Safai – Support  

San Francisco Planning Commission