The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
10. 
 
(P. IKEZOE: (415) 575-9137) 
CALIFORNIA STATE SENATE BILL 827 – Informational Presentation on the proposed State 
Senate Bill (“SB”) 827 and its potential effects on San Francisco. Presentation and 
accompanying memo includes analysis of SB 827 in its current form, including recent 
amendments to the bill formally introduced on March 1.  
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Paulo Ikezoe, Staff presentation 
 
 
= Diego Sanchez – Staff presentation 
 
 
- Diana Flores – Only solution to build 
 
 
- Rose Hilson – Opposes SB 827 
 
 
- Georgia Schuttish –  This Commission should oppose SB 827. 
Commissioners along with staff and residents of San Francisco can best 
make local land use decisions. Flawed proposals cannot be fixed by 
amendments. SB 827 is too broad, too overarching, and too much like are 
development plan than a housing plan, especially with no repeal of Ellis 
Act, Costa-Hawkins, etc. FARs are a blunt tool, not currently used to define 
housing size in San Francisco. They should not be used. This was a major 
problem with and one reason why the RET was opposed. Look at the real 
estate map submitted. Isn’t about housing. It’s about the speculative 
potential in The Mission with the marketing/upzoning of The Mission. This 
would spread to: The Excelsior, The Outer Mission, OceanView, Crocker-
Amazon, Portola, Silver Terrace, MissionTerrace, The Bayview, etc. SB 827 
is not a housing plan….it is a marketing/upzoning plan for 
redevelopment. 
 
 
- Edward Mason – Rezones SF 
 
 
- James Park – Not needed, reject SB 827 
 
 
- Dennis Antinori – Unnecessary legislation 
 
 
- Maria Liza – Large increases in zoning 
 
 
- Richard Frisbee – Poison pill 

San Francisco Planning Commission