The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
7. 
2018-004601CWP 
(J. SHAW: (415) 575-9135) 
SF STATE CAMPUS MASTER PLAN – San Francisco State University is coordinating with the 
Planning Department and City agency staff in expectation of a Notice of Preparation of a 
Draft EIR for their campus master plan this fall. Planning Staff are especially encouraged by 
the University’s goals of increasing campus housing for students and staff, connecting the 
campus to surrounding development and open spaces, and pursuing sustainability 
initiatives.  This Informational Presentation will update the Commission on the status of 
the campus master plan, inter-agency coordination and environmental review process. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None - Informational 
 
SPEAKERS: 
+ Leslie Wong – SF State Master Plan Presentation 
 
 
+ Jay Orendorff – SF State Master Plan Presentation 
 
 
= Jeremy Shaw – Staff comments 
 
 
+ Todd David – Supportive 
 
 
+ Pat Buscovich – Supportive 
ACTION:  
None – Informational 
 
8. 
2018-000971CUA 
(J. HORN: (415) 575-6925) 
2001 37TH AVENUE – located on the west side of 37th Avenue between Rivera and Pacheco 
Streets; Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 2094 (District 4) - Request for Conditional Use 
Authorization for the expansion of an existing private secondary school (St. Ignatius 
College Preparatory) to increase the maximum student enrollment by 100 students, from 
1500 to 1600 students. The additional students will be restricted to enrollment in a new 
6th through 8th grade middle school, the Fr. Sauer Academy. Classes for the Fr. Sauer 
Academy would occur within existing classrooms on campus, but the project includes a 
proposed 1,300 square foot buildable area, at the center of the campus, on existing 
concreate pad, for a potential classroom to be built in the future. The Project is located 
within a RH-1 (Residential-House, One Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk 
District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of 
CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Jeff Horn – Staff report 
 
 
+ Speaker – Project presentation 
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions 
AYES:  
Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Moore, Richards 

San Francisco Planning Commission