The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
6. 
2019-011895PCA 
(V. FLORES: (415) 575-9173) 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS IN NEW CONSTRUCTION [BF 190590] –Planning Code and 
Business and Tax Regulations Code Amendments to authorize the addition of an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit in the construction of a new single-family home or multi-family building; 
clarifying the ministerial approval process and creating an expedited Board of Appeals 
process for certain Accessory Dwelling Units in single-family homes meeting specific 
requirements; amending the requirements of the discretionary approval process under 
which property owners must subject certain Accessory Dwelling Units to the Rent 
Ordinance; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California 
Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan and the 
eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and adopting findings of public 
necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Modifications 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff report 
 
 
+ Corey Smith – Support 
ACTION:  
Approved (with K. Moore comments) 
AYES:  
Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Hillis, Richards  
RESOLUTION: 
20482 
 
7. 
2018-003800CWP 
(J. FRANCIS: (415) 575-9147) 
CALLE 24 SPECIAL AREA DESIGN GUIDELINES – parcels within NC and NCT Zoning Districts, 
generally bounded by 22nd Street to the north, San Bruno Avenue to the east, Cesar Chavez 
Street to the south, and Bartlett Street to the west. This is an Informational Presentation on 
the proposed Calle 24 Special Area Design Guidelines (SADG), which are intended to 
supplement the City’s Urban Design Guidelines and help ensure that new development 
and remodeled building facades complement existing neighborhood character and 
patterns of development. The proposed boundary for the SADGs roughly corresponds to 
the Calle 24 Special Use District (SUD), which was adopted by the City in 2017. The SUD 
created a unique set of commercial zoning regulations intended to preserve and enhance 
the unique character of the Calle 24 Latino Cultural District (established by the City in 
2014) and recognize Latino cultural heritage. The Calle 24 SADGs will further the SUD’s 
intent through guidelines that address architectural design, artwork, and other elements 

San Francisco Planning Commission