The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
8. 
2019-004597CUA 
(S. CISNEROS: (415) 575-9186) 
1509-1511 SLOAT BOULEVARD – south side of Sloat Boulevard between Clearfield Drive 
and Everglade Drive, within the Lakeshore Plaza Shopping Center, Lot 004 of Assessor’s 
Block 7255 (District 7) – Request for a Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning 
Code Sections 303, 713, and 780.1, to permit the expansion of an existing formula retail 
use (dba Peet’s Coffee) into a vacant space previously occupied by a formula retail use. The 
project scope of work consists of an interior remodel and modifications to an existing 
storefront. The subject property is located within a NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial 
Shopping Center Zoning District), Lakeshore Plaza Special Use District, and 26-40-X Height 
and Bulk Districts. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the 
purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Stefano Costalano – Hear it today 
Andrew Junius – Hear it today 
Bill Vancione – Continuance  
Speaker – Continuance  
= Stephanie Cisneros – Staff report 
+ Stefano Costalano – Project presentation  
+ Jason – Project presentation 
- Barbara Hanson – Problems  
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions 
AYES:  
Fung, Johnson, Koppel, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT: 
Hillis, Melgar 
MOTION: 
20479 
 
14. 
2015-000940CWP 
(L. LANGLOIS: (415) 575-9083) 
MARKET OCTAVIA PLAN AMENDMENT – Informational Presentation on the Market Octavia 
Plan Amendment (“The Hub”) including updated land use, urban form, public realm and 
public benefits recommendations. More information can be found at  
http://sf-planning.org/market-street-hub-project 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Lily Langlois – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Peter Papadapolous – Concerns over framework structure 
 
 
- Larisa Pedroncelli – Area plans 
- Speaker – Ripple effects 
 
 
- Andrew – Equity  
 
 
- Sue Hestor – Silicon Valley housing demand 
 
 
- Georgia Schuttish – Rental housing 
 
 
= Josh Switzky – Response to questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 

San Francisco Planning Commission