The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
15a. 
2019-003571MAP 
(V. FLORES: (415) 575-9173) 
915 CAYUGA AVENUE PROJECT ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS [BF 190251] – between Ocean 
and Onondaga Avenues, Lots 011C and 039 in Assessor’s Block 6954 (District 11) – Request 
to Adopt a Recommendation of Approval of a Zoning Map Amendment introduced by 
Supervisor Safai to amend the Zoning Map to change the zoning district on Assessor’s Parcel 
Block No. 6954, Lot No. 039, from RH-1 (Residential, House District, One Family) and Excelsior 
Outer Mission Street Neighborhood Commercial District to Excelsior Outer Mission Street 
Neighborhood Commercial District; and to change the zoning district on Assessor’s Parcel 
Block No. 6954, Lot No. 011C, from RH-1 to Excelsior Outer Mission Street Neighborhood 
Commercial District; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the 
California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan, 
and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and adopting findings of 
public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, Section 302.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Modifications 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff report 
 
 
+ Sup. Safai – Project components 
 
 
+Speaker, OEWD – Project presentation 
 
 
+ Speaker – Sponsor presentation 
 
 
+ Reza Khoshnevisan – Sponsor presentation 
 
 
+ Debbie Rowsher – Foster Youth housing 
 
 
+ Juan Carlos Hernandez – Homeless youth and students 
 
 
+ George Tinoco – Foster Youth 
 
 
+ Sandy Phan – Foster Youth 
 
 
- Jonathan Burbam – Parking 
 
 
+ Jessie Fernandez – Rent controlled units, BMRs 
 
 
= David Hooper – Parking 
 
 
+ Rena Zillow – Support 

San Francisco Planning Commission