The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
12. 
2018-016562PCA 
(J. BINTLIFF: (415) 575-9170) 
INCLUSIONARY HOUSING FEE FOR STATE DENSITY BONUS PROJECTS [BF 181154] – 
Planning Code Amendment introduced by Supervisor Peskin that would amend Section 
415 to require all projects using the State Density Bonus law, regardless of Environmental 
Evaluation Application date, to pay the inclusionary housing fee on any additional units or 
square footage allowed by the state law; and affirming the Planning Department’s 
determination under  the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of 
consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of the Planning Code, 
Section 101.1; and making findings of public convenience, necessity, and welfare under 
the Planning Code, Section 302.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Disapprove   
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Jacob Bintliff – Staff report 
 
 
+ Sunny Angulo, Aide to Sup. Peskin – Proposed legislation 
 
 
+ Fernando Martis – Clarity and certainty 
 
 
+ Corey Smith – Changing the rules 
 
 
= Sue Hestor – Continue the matter 
ACTION:  
After hearing and closing public comment; Continued to February 14,  
2019 
AYES:  
Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Moore, Richards 
ABSENT:  
Koppel, Melgar 
 
13. 
 
(M. CHION: (415) 575-9194) 
HOUSING STRATEGIES AND PLANS – This second Informational Presentation on housing 
will be focused on housing strategies and plans in San Francisco, the Bay Area and 
California.  On January 17th, the first briefing focused on Economic Trends and Housing 
Pipeline.  The purpose of this second briefing is to understand the wide range of efforts, 
identify complementary strategies and assess the potential to address our most pressing 
needs. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational    
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Miriam Chion – Staff presentation 
 
 
+ Judson True, Direct of Housing Delivery – Initial focus 
 
 
= Paul Wooding – CASA Report, SB50 
 
 
= Paul Webber – Paired housing and office space 
 
 
= James Park – Housing affordability and supply 
 
 
- Lorrain Petty – Reject briefing conclusions 
 
 
- Lou Anne Basson – Unsustainable density 
 
 
- David Woo – Focus on production 
 
 
+ Corey Smith – Add more housing at all levels of affordability 

San Francisco Planning Commission