The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
20. 
2015-000940ENV, 2017-008051ENV, 2016-014802ENV 
(A. CALLAGY: (415) 575-8734) 
THE HUB PLAN, 30 VAN NESS AVENUE PROJECT, 98 FRANKLIN STREET PROJECT, AND HUB 
HOUSING SUSTAINABILITY DISTRICT – approximately 84-acre area of San Francisco within 
the boundaries of the Market and Octavia Area Plan in the Downtown/Civic Center, South of 
Market (SoMa), Western Addition, and Mission neighborhoods. Multiple Assessor’s Blocks 
and Lots (Districts 5 and 6) – Certification of the Final Environmental Impact Report. The EIR 
evaluated the planning department-proposed Hub Plan and related actions. The related 
actions associated with the Hub Plan are two individual private development projects within 
the Hub Plan area at 30 Van Ness Avenue and 98 Franklin Street and the designation of 
portions or all of the Hub Plan area as a Housing Sustainability District (HSD). The Hub Plan 
would amend the 2008 Market and Octavia Area Plan of the San Francisco General Plan for 
the easternmost portions of the Market and Octavia Area Plan. The overarching objectives 
of the Hub Plan are to encourage housing, including affordable housing, and create a 
neighborhood with a range of uses and services to meet community needs. The Hub Plan 
would pursue this vision through changes to current zoning controls in the area to meet 
plan objectives. The proposed project at 30 Van Ness Avenue includes retention of portions 
of an existing 75-foot-tall, five-story building and construction of a 47-story building with 
ground-floor retail space, up to 10 floors of office space, and 37 floors of residential space. 
The 30 Van Ness Avenue site would also include space for 148 vehicular parking spaces and 
349 bicycle spaces. The proposed project at 98 Franklin Street includes demolition of an 
existing 100-space surface parking lot and construction of a 31-story residential tower above 
a five-story podium that would be occupied by new facilities for the International High 
School (Grades 9–12 of the French American International School [FAIS]). The 98 Franklin 
Street site would also include approximately 108 vehicular parking spaces and 539 bicycle 
spaces.  
Please Note: The public hearing on the Draft EIR is closed. The public comment period for 
the Draft EIR ended on September 9, 2019. Public comment will be received when the item 
is called during the hearing. However, comments submitted may not be included in the Final 
EIR.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Certify 
(Continued from Regular hearing on May 14, 2020) 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
 
 
= Alana Calagy – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Lily Langlois – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Jessica Look – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Maia Small – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Katie – Support, embark on new housing across the city 
 
 
- David Woo – Opposed, have a plan that would benefit everyone 
 
 
+ Melinda Bihn – Support 
 
 
- Tom Radulovich – Parking and traffic 
 
 
- Tes Welborn– Opposed unless amended 

San Francisco Planning Commission