The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
10. 
 
(K. CONNER: (628) 652-7535) 
STATE DENSITY BONUS LAW – Informational Presentation on the State Density Bonus Law. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Kate Conner – Staff presentation 
 
- Sue Hestor – Continue item to allow public to absorb information 
provided 
 
+ Corey Smith – Height based project, consistency, reduce process 
 
- Anastasia Yovanapoulos – Market rate units 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
11. 
2020-009640OTH 
(C. FLORES: (628) 652-7439) 
CENTERING PLANNING ON RACIAL AND SOCIAL EQUITY – Informational Presentation – 
Staff will update the Commission on the Department’s progress on the implementation of 
the June 11, 2020 Planning Commission’s Equity Resolution, Phase 1 Racial & Social Equity 
Action Plan implementation status, and Phase 2 next steps. Phase 1 contains goals, 
objectives, and specific actions the Department is undertaking to advance racial and social 
equity in our internal functions and was updated and submitted to the Office of Racial 
Equity for review in December 2020. Phase 2 will focus on the external functions of the 
Department. The Equity Resolution centered the Department’s work on equity, reinforced 
the Department’s Racial & Social Equity Action Plan, and directed the Department to 
prioritize certain tasks to further advance this work. The Office of Racial Equity requires the 
Department to annually report on the action plan status, update the action plan every 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 10, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 12 
 
three years following adoption, and integrate the action plan within the Department’s 
strategic plan.  
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Claudia Flores – Staff presentation 
 
- Joseph Smith – Training 
 
- David Woo – Must be present in the process, clear plan and vision 
 
- Speaker – Map 2020 
 
- Marcelle – Changes is not enough, gentrification 
 
- Don – Ongoing impact 
 
- Linda – Implementation 
 
- Chantal – Low income forced out of the community 
 
- Maria – Inclusion in action 
 
- Anastasia Yovanopoulos – Rent, tenant issues 
 
- Nina – Add Cannabis equity to phase 2 
 
- Guadalupe Benitez – We are not heard 
 
- Larisa Pedroncelli – Anti gentrification policy, more transparency, no 
meetings behind closed doors 
 
- Virginia Marsh – A lot of work to do but a good start 
 
+ Gabriela Ruiz – Opportunity to change 
 
- Eddie Bland – Resource allocation 
 
- Lorraine Petty – Sincere two-way communication, free internet for all 
 
- Speaker – Make entire hearing accessible in all language 
 
- Glenn – A lot of work has to be done, work with the community 
 
- Ramon Garcia – Access to education and economic opportunity  
 
- Eric Arguello – True equitable outcomes 
 
- David Eliott Lewis –  
 
- Speaker – Process should be flipped 
 
- Speaker – Make the decisions move 
 
- Sue Hestor – Need more work to educate Planning staff 
 
- Speaker – Letters from 11th district regarding displacement  
 
- Maribel Gonzaga – Non English speakers cannot participate and their 
opinion is not heard, request translation to be available 
 
- Kelly Hill – Gentrification 
 
- Sonya – Not creating real solutions, no benefit to low income community  
 
= Miriam Chion – Response to  questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
12. 
2019-017761CUA 
(B. HICKS: (628) 652-7528) 
4234 24TH STREET – north side between Douglass and Diamond Streets; Lot 014 in 
Assessor's Block 2830 (District 8) – Request is for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant 
to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317, to demolish an existing one-story-over-garage, 
3,670-square-foot, single-family residence and the construction of a new three-story-over-
basement, 5,556-square-foot, two-family residence with two vehicle parking spaces. The 
project site is located within a RH-2 (Residential-House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 
40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for 
the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 10, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 12 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Bridget Hicks – Staff report 
 
+ Earle Weiss – Project sponsor 
 
+ Speaker – Proposed cut back, two units vs one huge unit 
 
= Georgia Schuttish – Design of project 
 
+ Josephine – Need more housing 
ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions as modified, replacing the roof penthouse with 
a roof hatch. 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
MOTION: 
20932 
 
13. 
2020-007152CUA 
(R. BALBA: (628) 652- 7331) 
5801 MISSION STREET – south side between Acton Street and Oliver Street, Lot 001 of 
Assessor’s Block 6742 (District 11) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to 
Planning Code Sections 202.2, 303, and 720, for a Project proposing a change of use from 
Retail to Cannabis Retail on the first floor of the existing two-story mixed-use building, 
with no on-site smoking or vaporizing of cannabis products. The subject property is 
located within the Excelsior Outer Mission Street NC (Neighborhood Commercial) Zoning 
District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for 
the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code 
Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Ryan Balba – Staff report 
 
+ Heidi Hanley – Project sponsor 
 
+ Edward Brown – Project sponsor 
 
- Oleg Camilo – Opposed 
 
+ David Goldman – Support 
 
- Julie Hansen – Oppose 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Michael Cowan – Support 
 
+ Ryan Miller – Support 
 
- Josephine – Oppose, no outreach received 
 
- Speaker – Oppose 
 
+ Sandra – Support 
 
+ Mary Burnett – Support 
 
+ Ramon Garcia – Support 
 
- Virginia Marshall – Oppose 
 
- Jorge – Oppose 
 
- Robert Parker – Oppose 
 
+ Michelle – Support 
 
+ Lionel Rifkin – Support 
 
- Carol – Not in our neighborhood 
 
+ John – Support 
 
- Speaker – Oppose 
 
+ Gregory Mills – Support 
 
+ Crystal – Oppose 
 
+ Anita Parks – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, June 10, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 12 
 
 
+ Denise – Support 
 
- Steve Courier – Oppose 
 
- Pastor Robert – Oppose 
 
+ Al – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
- Ivan Walker – Increased with robberies 
 
- Ben – Oppose 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Catherine – Support 
 
+ Gregory – Support 
 
- Aaron Jones – Oppose 
 
- David Hooper – Oppose 
 
- Alex Murillo – Oppose 
 
- Speaker – Oppose 
 
- Lisa – Oppose 
 
- Pat – Oppose 
 
= Michael Christensen – Response to questions 
ACTION: 
After a Motion to Disapprove failed +2 -4 (Diamond, Imperial, Moore, 
Koppel against); Approved with Conditions 
AYES: 
Diamond, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
NAYS: 
Tanner, Fung 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
MOTION: 
20933