The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
11. 
2020-002347CWP 
(J. SWITZKY: (628) 652-7464) 
UCSF PARNASSUS MOU – Informational Presentation by the Planning Department and the 
University of California San Francisco (UCSF) on the draft Memorandum of Understanding 
(“MOU”) between the City and UCSF regarding the proposed Comprehensive Parnassus 
Heights Plan (“CPHP”). The CPHP will guide changes and investment for the next 30 years at 
the Parnassus Heights campus and would accommodate up to approximately 2.05 million 
gross square feet of net new development at the 107-acre Parnassus campus, including 
approximately 750 housing units and approximately 1.15 million square feet of new clinical 
and research space, along with improvements in open spaces, circulation and support 
facilities. UCSF is seeking approval of the CPHP by the UC Regents at their meeting on 
January 20-21, 2021. The proposed MOU establishes commitments and investments that 
UCSF will make to the City in relation to implementation of the CPHP, including in areas of 
housing, transportation, workforce development and hiring, health care services, open 
space, and general coordination and process, among other topics. The commitments in the 
MOU are supplemental to any mitigations identified through the CEQA process. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Joshua Switzky – Staff Presentation 
 
+ Jeff Buckley – City Attorney’s Office Presentation 
 
+ Brian Newman – Project Sponsor Presentation 
 
- Dr. Teresa Palmer – Lack of commitment to hospital long-term care beds 
 
+ Judith – Support 
 
+ Emily Abraham – Chamber of Commerce, support 
 
+ Michelle Maine – SF Housing Action Coalition, support 
 
- Lori Liederman – Delay 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Pam – Support 
 
+ Conrad Amenta – Support 
 
- Kathy Cone – Impact on the immediate residents, quality of life 
 
+ Theo Gordon – Support 
 
- Ozzie Rohm – Public comment instructions not followed, breaks 
agreement, affordable housing 
 
+ Lope Yap Jr. – Murals 
 
- Sam Deutsch – Oppose 
 
+ Jeff Till – Quality of urban design, affordable housing 
 
- George Wooding – Delay, no neighborhood involvement 
 
+ Dave Brown – Support 

San Francisco Planning Commission