The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
6. 
2018-004047CWP-02 
(M. LITTLEFIELD: (628) 652-7435) 
HOUSING INVENTORY REPORT, HOUSING BALANCE REPORT, AND UPDATE ON MONITORING 
REPORTS – Informational Presentation – Staff will present the 2020 Housing Inventory, 
which describes San Francisco’s housing production trends on new housing construction, 
demolitions and alterations as well as progress on meeting the City’s regional housing needs 
allocation (RHNA) for different income levels. Findings of the State-mandated annual 
Housing Element Progress Report on how housing production trends advance the Housing 
Element’s policies and goals will also be presented. Housing Balance Report Nos. 11 and 12, 
which cover the ten-year period from July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2020, and January 1, 
2011 through December 31, 2020, respectively, will also be presented. The Housing Balance 
Report monitors the housing balance between market rate and new affordable housing 
production. An update will also be provided on the estimated completion of various 
monitoring reports.  
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
 
= Michelle Littlefield – Staff presentation 
 
= Oscar Hernandez-Gomez – Staff presentation 
 
= Kimia Haddadan – Staff presentation 
 
= Malena Leon-Farrera – Staff presentation 
 
- Lori Liederman – RHNA goals, affordable housing market 
 
- Richard Skaff – Wheelchair accessible units, ADA 
 
=Speaker – Fair housing, increase housing 
 
- Marie Sorenson – Social housing in all areas 
 
- David Woo – Market based solution, new parks and rec centers 
 
- Ben Terrell –Permanent affordable housing, racial and social equity 
 
- Reina Tello – Affordable housing 
 
+ Ana Lee – High opportunity areas  
 
- Speaker – Housing plan that is truly racially equitable 
 
- Suree – Data does not show for American Indian 
 
= Speaker – Inequity issue, size and inventory 
 
- Katherine Howard – Public comment, Parks and open space, data 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 12 
 
 
- Jessica Lehman – Affordable calculation, seniors, people with disability 
 
- Lorraine Petty – Raise target goals, more affordable than market rate 
 
+ Alex Lansberg – Cost to build vs construction wages, labor 
 
- Ozzie Rohm – Adopt policies to protect homes in neighborhoods 
 
- Jessie Oliver Sanford – LGBTQ needs 
 
+ Corey Smith – Support 
 
- Joseph – Report inaccurate, racial and social equity 
 
- Betty Trainer – Inadequacies, seniors and people with disabilities  
 
= Paul Maldonado – Racial and social equity, environmental, GHG 
 
+ David Brockman – Help produce rents 
 
= Speaker – Avoid people for becoming homeless 
 
= Kenneth Russell – Fair housing, more housing in opportunity areas  
 
- Glenn - Racial and social equity, community of color stakeholder 
 
- Don Mazumi – Streamline market rate housing, equity 
 
- Teresa Marquez –San Francisco needs to build housing for its people  
 
- Hope Williams – Focus on permanent affordable housing 
 
+ Speaker – Increase housing in every neighborhood 
 
- Tracy Rosenberg – Affordable housing problem remains 
- Eric Arguello – Create strategy centered on racial and social equity.  
 
- Speaker – Need housing that people can afford 
 
- Bob – Focus on building on the west side 
 
- Jesse – Lead land use strategies that meet our needs not developers 
 
- Sam Deutsch – Maximize number of affordable homes 
 
- Regina – Contradictions in the report, public facilities 
 
- Anastasia Yovanopoulos – ADUs incorrectly categorized, inaccurate data 
 
+ Tyler – Reversing zoning restrictions, west side development 
 
- Speaker – Permanent affordable housing, racial and social equity 
 
- Ray Martin – A lot needs to be worked on, deeply affordable housing 
 
+ Jessica – Build more housing of all kinds, housing demand 
 
- Cynthia Obregon – Without a community process there is no equity 
 
+ Speaker – Report is clearly focused on racial and social equity 
 
- Jean – Pause process, create strategy centered on racial and social equity  
 
- Mariela Dela Mora - Pause the housing element process 
 
+ Randy Tan – Expedite process, increase density near transit, vouchers 
 
+ Jane Natoli – Keep up with housing crisis, more housing of all types 
 
- Calvin Welch – Confused data, more affordable housing, more time 
 
+ Lou Buendia – Ending exclusionary zoning, more housing 
 
- Larisa Pedroncelli – Systemic racism, pause the process 
 
- Speaker – Prioritize the real needs, not competent equity mapping 
 
+ Theodore Randolph – RHNA goals are too small, we need more housing  
 
- Speaker – Pause to create strategy centered on racial and social equity 
 
- Danny Campbell – Construction workers fair wages  
 
- Angelica Cabande – Permanent affordable housing, public amenities 
 
- Michael Nulty – Land trust, pause the process, limit market rate housing 
 
- Ramon Iglesias – Upzone the entire city, expedite housing 
 
= Charles Ayers – Take the opportunity to go big, increase housing 
 
- Chris – Wealthy are using the law, end exclusionary housing 
 
- Peter Papadopoulos – Concerns in the process, structure and policy 
 
- Greg – More affordable housing for disabled seniors, more input 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 12 
 
 
- Kelly Hill – Create major systemic change, pause element process  
 
- David – Support upzoning in all of SF, more houses are necessary  
 
- Theresa Flandrick – Missing narratives, speak to homeowners 
 
+ Speaker –Legalize apartments and affordable housing  
 
+ Speaker – greater percentage of housing in high opportunity area 
 
- Linda Chapman – Pause the process, zoning maps 
 
+ Yonathan Randolph – Support increase in zoning capacity, in-law units 
 
+ Scott Connor – Expanding capacity and new housing supply  
 
- Miguel Bustos – Pause the housing element process 
 
- Speaker – Not fair for the poor community 
 
+ Sarah Ogilvie – Consider major rezone 
 
+ Amy Chan – MOHCD  
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
7. 
2019-016230CWP 
(K. HADDADAN: (628) 652-7436) 
HOUSING ELEMENT 2022 UPDATE – Informational Presentation – The Planning Department 
is launching the Phase II of outreach and engagement for the Housing Element of the 
General Plan. This update is San Francisco's first housing plan, centered in racial and social 
equity. The update is due late 2022 and will include policies and programs that express the 
city’s collective vision and values for the future of housing in San Francisco. This plan will 
identify priorities for decision makers, guide resource allocation for housing programs and 
services, and define how and where the city should create new homes for San Franciscans, 
or those who want to call this city home. This plan will need to accommodate the creation 
of 82,000 units by 2031, a target set by State and Regional Agencies that has been tripled 
compared to the city’s current targets. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 6. 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
8. 
2021-003010PRJ 
(R. ABAD: (628) 652-7456) 
TRANSITIONING THE SHARED SPACES TO A PERMANENT CITY PROGRAM – Informational 
Presentation – The Shared Spaces Program has been a critical part of the City’s crisis 
response strategy to sustain the locally owned small business sector in San Francisco. In 
addition to stabilizing neighborhood commercial corridors, merchants, and jobs, the 
Program has contributed positively to walkability, social and psychological wellbeing during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to widespread success throughout the City’s neighborhoods, 
on Friday, March 12, Mayor Breed announced legislation to transition Shared Spaces from 
an emergency response into a permanent program through and after the pandemic. The 
legislation was officially introduced on Tuesday, March 16. The permanent version of the 
program will carry forward the streamlined permit process; encourage arts and culture; and 
better balance commercial activities with public space and transportation demands of the 
recovering economy.  
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
 
= Robin Abad – Staff presentation 
 
- Renee – Traffic conditions, walking on sidewalks 
 
- Speaker – Paratransit requirements for door to door, safety 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 12 
 
 
- Lucia Obregon – Lacks equitable policy, pause for more input 
 
+ Corey Smith – Be open to iterations and improvements  
 
- Jeff – Privatization of public space 
 
- Ozzie Rohm – Hazardous to pedestrians, bicyclists and disable, energy  
 
- Speaker – Pause to conduct proper community engagement 
 
- Richard Skaff – Does not meet ADA and CA building code 
 
- Michael Nulty – Access for all, translate in multi-language 
 
+  Robert – Impact to economy, replace car spaces with shared spaces 
 
+ Eric Kaplan – How we use public land, public access to spaces 
 
+ Randy Tan – Support, public use of space when business is closed 
 
+ Paul Maldonado – Great opportunity for the local economy 
 
+ Sharky Laguana – Help restart the economy, builds community  
 
= Peter Papadapoulos – Need structural equity, trouble with grants, fees 
 
- Speaker – Need a proper community engagement, inequity  
 
- Larisa Pedroncelli – Inequitable, outreach, community opportunity  
 
+ Jane Natoli – Great to have spaces like this, businesses owners  
 
- Speaker – Accessibility requirements 
 
= Speaker – Public spaces remain for the public 
 
+ Jonathan – Lifeline to small businesses 
 
+ Speaker – Improve the program not scrap it 
 
+ Laurie Thomas – Critical to keep restaurants open 
 
+ Theodore Randolph – Relieves traffic congestion 
 
- Eric Arguello – Slow down and thought out thoroughly, fees 
 
+ David – Reduce traffic, make permanent  
 
- Kelly Hill – Need for a strong equity lens, fees 
 
+ Martin Munoz – Must open to all members of the public 
 
- Speaker – Slow down, ADA and public access issues 
 
+ Ben Deutsch – Streets are for people rather than for cars 
 
+ Darcy Bender – OEWD 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
9. 
2021-002933PCA 
(S. NICKOLOPOULOS: (628) 652-7442) 
SIMPLIFY RESTRICTIONS ON SMALL BUSINESSES [BOARD FILE NO. 210285] – Adoption of 
Planning Code Amendments to 1) delete separate definitions of “Cat Boarding,” “Gym,” 
“Trade Shop,” and “Services, Instructional”; 2) allow permitted conditional uses to continue 
after three years of abandonment; 3) allow the continuation of longstanding places of 
entertainment without requiring a permit; 4) allow outdoor activity areas on rooftops; 5) 
temporarily require a conditional use authorization for uses replacing Nighttime 
Entertainment uses; 6) allow accessory Catering uses in Restaurants; 7) allow accessory 
dwelling units on the ground floor in Neighborhood Commercial, Chinatown Business, 
and Chinatown Visitor districts; 8) allow temporary outdoor entertainment, arts and 
recreation activities; 9) delete certain conditional use finding requirements for nighttime 
entertainment use; 10) delete conditional use findings related to formula retail 
concentrations in certain districts; 11) require expedited permit processing for commercial 
uses on the ground floor; 12) shorten the time for the Historic Preservation Commission to 
request review of Minor Alteration Permits and Certificates Of Appropriateness, affirming 
the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; 
and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 12 
 
Planning Code, Section 101.1, and findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare 
under Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Modifications 
 
SPEAKERS:  
+ Laurel Arvantidis - OEWD 
= Sheila Nickolopoulos – Staff presentation 
 
+ Laurie Thomas – Will help restaurants in many ways 
 
- Mathias – Small commercial spaces, expensive changes, need more time 
 
- Peter Papadapoulos – Help small business, cultural protections, equity 
 
+ Emily Abraham – Small business needs support 
 
- Sam Hayes – Concerns, how fast it is moving, entertainment uses 
 
- Ozzie Rohm – Commercial spaces are not secluded, small businesses 
 
+ Debbie Horn – Simplify the process to start a business 
 
- Larisa – Destabilize our community, weakening protections, equity lens 
 
- Michael Nulty – Land use issue, proper notification of noise ordinance  
 
- Katherine Howard – Decision should be postponed, public process 
 
- William Riley – Rooftop access 
 
+ Speaker – Simplify process to open business 
 
+ Sharky Laguana – Important step to move forward, economy 
 
- Speaker – Need some changes before approving, entertainment 
 
- Speaker – Outreach, remove formula retail  
 
- Eric Arguello –Broad changes, every neighborhood is different 
 
+ Randy Tan – Permitting and process, remove night club 
 
+ Robert Fruchtman – Equity analysis of Prop H 
 
+ Eric – Step in the right direction, hard to open small business, vacancy 
 
+ Speaker – Encourage hometown chains not formula retail 
 
+ Manny Yekutiel – Support, small businesses  
 
- Marie Sorenson –Continue, rethink ideas, rooftop dining/entertainment 
 
+ Theodore Randolph – Shorter approval process 
 
= Bridget Hicks – Response to questions 
 
= Liz Watty – Response to questions 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to questions 
 
+ Ben Van Houten – OEWD 
 
= Corey Teague – Response to questions 
ACTION: 
Approved with Staff Modifications and eliminating the provision related to 
ADU’s in Chinatown. 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Koppel 
NAYS: 
Chan, Imperial, Moore 
RESOLUTION: 
20895 
 
10. 
2019-006114PRJ 
(M. CHRISTENSEN: (628) 652-7567) 
300 5TH STREET – southwest corner of Folsom and 5th Streets; Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 
3753 (District 6) – An Informational Hearing on the new construction of a 160’ tall, 16-story 
residential building (measuring 112,219 gross square feet) with 130 dwelling units, 108 
Class One bicycle parking spaces, and zero off-street auto parking spaces. The Project is 
requesting approval through the ministerial review process provided under the Central 
SOMA Housing Sustainability District (Planning Code Section 343). The site is located within 
a MUR (Mixed Use Residential) Zoning District, Central SoMa Special Use District (SUD), 
SOMA Youth and Family SUD, and 85-X Height and Bulk District. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 12 
 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Michael Christensen – Staff presentation 
 
+ Jake Shemano – Project sponsor 
 
+ Ira Kaplan – Adding housing and replacing gas station 
 
+ Speaker – Support, bikes, rooftop, affordable/market units 
 
+ Corey Smith – Support, petition 
 
+ Speaker – Support, 130 homes are what we need 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
11. 
2013.0614ENX-02 
(M. CHRISTENSEN: (628) 652-7567) 
600 SOUTH VAN NESS – southeast corner of South Van Ness Avenue at 17th Street; Lots 139-
168 of Assessor’s Block 3575 (District 9) – Request for Large Project Authorization, pursuant 
to Planning Code Sections 329 and 843, for a Project which requests to amend Condition of 
Approval Numbers 22-27 of Planning Commission Motion No. 19378 to authorize the 
recently-constructed five-story, 27-unit residential project to comply with the inclusionary 
housing requirements of Planning Code Section 415 through the payment of an in-lieu fee 
rather than by providing four on-site Below Market Rate units. The Project Site is located 
within a UMU (Urban Mixed Use) Zoning District and 58-X Height and Bulk District. On April 
9, 2015 the originally approved project received a Community Plan Evaluation and was 
deemed exempt from CEQA (case number 2013.0614ENV). The proposed project change 
does not result in a physical change to the environment and the original exemption applies.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
(Continued from Regular hearing on April 1, 2021) 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Michael Christensen – Staff presentation 
 
+ Amy Beinart – Legislative aide to Supervisor Ronen 
 
+ Lydia Ely – MOHCD 
 
= Carly Grob – Response to questions 
 
+ Steve Vettel – Project sponsor 
ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
MOTION: 
20896 
 
13. 
2020-010729CUA 
(V. PAGE: (628) 652-7396) 
1215 29TH AVENUE – west side of 29th Avenue between Lincoln Way and Irving Street, Lot 
002 of Assessor’s Block 1721 (District 4) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization, 
pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317, to remove two Unauthorized Dwelling 
Units from the ground floor of an existing three-story, single-family residence. The two 
Unauthorized Dwelling Units have a path to legalization under the Planning Code and are 
currently subject to the Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance.  Both Unauthorized 
Dwelling Units are currently occupied by tenants.  The Project was filed in response to the 
Board of Appeals’ Notice of Decision and Order for Appeal No. 20-027 (Planning 
Enforcement Case No. 2018-008429ENF). The Project Site is located within a RH-1(D) 
(Residential, House, One Family, Detached) Zoning District and 40-X height and Bulk District. 
This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, 
pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Disapprove 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 12 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis - Introduction 
= Vincent Page – Staff presentation 
 
+ Lee Hammack – Project sponsor 
 
+ Project Sponsor – Response to questions 
 
= Rich Sucre – Response to questions 
ACTION: 
Disapproved 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
MOTION: 
20897 
 
14. 
2020-009148CUA 
(M. CHRISTENSEN: (628) 652-7567) 
353 DIVISADERO STREET – southwest corner of Divisadero and Oak Streets; Lot 001 in 
Assessor’s Block 1218 (District 5) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to 
Planning Code Sections 202.2, 303, and 759, for a change of use from Restaurant to Cannabis 
Retail within the existing 1,300 square foot commercial space on the ground floor of the 
existing three-story mixed-use building. The Project does not propose an on-site smoking 
or vaporizing room. The site is located within the Divisadero Street NCT (Neighborhood 
Commercial Transit) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action 
constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San 
Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Michael Christensen – Staff presentation 
 
+ Jason Everett – Project sponsor 
 
+ Ayeesha – Project sponsor 
 
+ Alex Aquino – Project sponsor 
 
- Speaker – Bicyclist safety 
 
+ Kristen Evans – Support 
 
+ Mark Brennan – Parking concerns 
 
+ Mark Henderson - Support 
 
 
+ Katrina – Support 
 
- Tom Hamilton – Merchants’ concerns, security, safety, parking  
 
+ Ryan - Support 
 
+ Christopher – Support, bring more jobs to the neighborhood 
 
+ Michael Nulty – Support 
 
+ Rose – Support, new jobs, boosting economy  
 
+ Justin – Support 
 
+ Anthony – Support 
 
+ Hunter McCarthy – Support 
 
+ John Amaro – Support 
 
+ Michael Xavier – Support 
ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
MOTION: 
20898 
 
G. 
DISCRETIONARY REVIEW CALENDAR   
 
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; 
followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed 
by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.  Please be 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 12 of 12 
 
advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or 
their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
15. 
2020-006525DRP 
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
1990 LOMBARD STREET – at Webster and Magnolia Streets; Lot 015 in Assessor’s Block 0493 
(District 2) – Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application no. 
2018.0327.4744 to convert  the two upper floors of an existing office and commercial 
building to residential use (to a total of six units), including a new roof deck and stair 
penthouse to an existing three-story building within a NC-3 (Neighborhood Commercial, 
Moderate Scale) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes 
the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco 
Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve  
(Continued from Regular hearing on March 4, 2021) 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff presentation 
- Dawn Ma – DR  
 
+ Rajat Randev – Project Sponsor 
ACTION: 
No DR 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
DRA: 
746 
 
16. 
2020-002333DRP 
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
2814 CLAY STREET – between Scott and Divisadero Streets; Lot  013 in Assessor’s Block 1002 
(District 2) – Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application no. 
2020.0203.3400 to construct a two-story horizontal rear addition to the existing two-unit, 
three-story over-basement building within a RH-2 (Residential House, Two-Family) Zoning 
District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the 
project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 
31.04(h) 
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Modifications 
(Continued from Regular hearing on March 25, 2021) 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff presentation 
 
- Elliott Maxwell – DR 
 
+ Dane Bunton – Project sponsor 
 
+ Jeannie Shin – Project sponsor 
 
- Speaker –Objects the project  
ACTION: 
No DR 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
DRA: 
747 
 
ADJOURNMENT 11:16 PM 
ADOPTED MAY 6, 2021