The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
8. 
2020-008417CWP 
(A. NELSON: (628) 652-7444)  
 
HOUSING RECOVERY – Informational Presentation – Staff from the Planning Department, 
Mayor’s Office of Housing and Community Development, Department of Homelessness and 
Supportive Housing, and Department of Public Health will present information on the 
current conditions, efforts underway, and proposed efforts to support public health and 
housing for the city’s residents, focusing on vulnerable populations, in response to the 
COVID-19 and economic crises. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
+ Dr. Deborah Borne – Department of Public Health Presentation 
+ Andi Nelson – Staff Presentation 
+ Dylan Schneider – Department of Homelessness and Supportive 
Housing Presentation 
+ Lydia Ely – Mayor's Office of Housing and Community Development 
Presentation 
= Maia Small – Staff Presentation 
- David Woo – Impacted communities, eviction protection 
+ Corey Smith – Economic opportunity, data is consistent w/ housing 
growth and job growth 
- Mary Travis Allen – Include the American Indian community on the data 
- Curtis – A lot more needs to happen 
= Georgia Schuttish – The Leonhardt Chart from 2017 is a good illustration 
of the income inequality that faces SF. The income inequality really took off 
in 2014 according to the chart and that was around the time that the 
Extreme Alterations also took off. Projects permitted as Alterations were 
Demolitions and then ultimately sold for great deal of money as spec 
projects. This was within five years of the Demo Calcs being enacted and 
within five years of the Staff saying they may come back to you 
with….“….recommendations for adjustment of some of the thresholds 
that the code empowers you to make, particularly about the thresholds for 
alteration projects that are tantamount to demolitions” Section 317 (b) (2) 
(D) empowers you as the staff said back in March 2009 to immediately 
move on this to help the Housing Recovery. I will send a follow up letter. 
- Diana Flores – Latin X population 
- Charles Heard – Meeting 
- Gabriela Ruiz – Lower income neighborhood 
- Lorraine Petty – Affordable housing 

San Francisco Planning Commission