The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
5. 
2020-006112PCA 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525) 
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT ZONING CONTROLS [BF 210381] – Planning Code Amendments 
– Ordinance amending the Planning Code to revise Massage Establishment zoning controls, 
including, among other things, to 1) add Sole Practitioner Massage Establishments to the 
definition of Health Services in Article 7; 2) regulate Massage Establishments consistent with 
Health Services, except that where zoning for Health Services is more permissive, Massage 
Establishments shall require conditional use authorization on the second floor and are not 
permitted on the third floor and above unless located within a Hotel; 3) eliminate the three-
month period to establish abandonment of certain nonconforming Massage Establishment 
uses; 4) prohibit Personal Services uses for three years at any location where a Massage 
Establishment use was closed due to a violation of the Planning Code or Health Code; 5) 
eliminate the exception from the conditional use authorization requirement for massage 
uses accessory to a dwelling unit; and 6) delete related provisions that have expired through 
the passage of time; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the 
California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General 
Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and public necessity, 
convenience, and general welfare findings pursuant to Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Modification 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff report 
 
+ Paul Monge, Legislative Aide of Supervisor Ronen 
 
- Linda Chapman – Need to have controls for places 
 
- Eric Stine – Conditional use at 450 Sutter 
 
= Dario Jones – Response to questions 
 
= Aaron Starr – Response to questions 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to questions 
ACTION: 
Approved with Staff Modifications 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
RESOLUTION: 
20926 
 
6. 
2018-013637CWP 
(L. FISHER: (628) 652-7450 AND L. BARATA: (628) 652-7326) 
ISLAIS CREEK SOUTHEAST MOBILITY AND ADAPTATION STRATEGY – area between southern 
Dogpatch, northern Bayview, Highway 101 and the San Francisco Bay  – Informational 
Hearing nearing the end of a two-year effort funded by Caltrans and agency staff resources; 
Planning leads the interagency team comprised of SFMTA, SF Port, and SFPUC. Building on 
robust technical analysis and public engagement, ICSMAS outlines coastal/inland flooding 
and sea level rise adaptation strategies and pathways to protect the area, its key assets, and 
communities from the unavoidable impacts of climate change. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None- Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= AnMarie Rodgers – Introduction 
 
= Lisa Fisher – Staff presentation 

San Francisco Planning Commission