The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
7. 
2021-006260PCA 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525) 
STATE-MANDATED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT CONTROLS [BF 210585] – Planning Code 
Amendments – Ordinance amending the Planning Code to clarify the ministerial approval 
process for certain Accessory Dwelling Units meeting certain requirements in single-family 
and multi-family buildings; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the 
California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan, 
and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and adopting findings of 
public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff presentation 
 
- Brett Gladstone – Legal or policy reason for restrictions 
 
- Corey Smith – Carve outs 
 
+Linda Chapman – Advocate for ADUs 
 
- Bruce Bowen – See rapid development, public access to data 
 
- Anastasia Yovanapoulos – Rent control, affordability 
 
- Georgia Schuttish – Adding ADUs to new high-end projects may not be 
producing the outcome desired by the policy. On September 7, 2017 the 
Commission approved DRA-0551 for a new project after a Demolition of a 
sound home, but the Commission wanted the developer to create space for 
an ADU. It was to be 1200 square feet in size. Originally an Alteration, the 
project morphed into a Demo w/ major excavation after two appraisals 
reached former RH-1 exemption value. The home was last occupied prior 
to the sale in 2015. It was completed in 2021 and went on the market for 
$6.195 million. There was no mention of the ADU in the web ads. It was 
reduced to $5.795 million. And then removed from the market. ADUs in 
high end projects may just make projects more unaffordable. This is one 
project…. 
 
- Lorraine Petty – Affordability 

San Francisco Planning Commission