The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
6. 
2018-004047CWP-02 
(M. LITTLEFIELD: (628) 652-7435) 
HOUSING INVENTORY REPORT, HOUSING BALANCE REPORT, AND UPDATE ON MONITORING 
REPORTS – Informational Presentation – Staff will present the 2020 Housing Inventory, 
which describes San Francisco’s housing production trends on new housing construction, 
demolitions and alterations as well as progress on meeting the City’s regional housing needs 
allocation (RHNA) for different income levels. Findings of the State-mandated annual 
Housing Element Progress Report on how housing production trends advance the Housing 
Element’s policies and goals will also be presented. Housing Balance Report Nos. 11 and 12, 
which cover the ten-year period from July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2020, and January 1, 
2011 through December 31, 2020, respectively, will also be presented. The Housing Balance 
Report monitors the housing balance between market rate and new affordable housing 
production. An update will also be provided on the estimated completion of various 
monitoring reports.  
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
 
= Michelle Littlefield – Staff presentation 
 
= Oscar Hernandez-Gomez – Staff presentation 
 
= Kimia Haddadan – Staff presentation 
 
= Malena Leon-Farrera – Staff presentation 
 
- Lori Liederman – RHNA goals, affordable housing market 
 
- Richard Skaff – Wheelchair accessible units, ADA 
 
=Speaker – Fair housing, increase housing 
 
- Marie Sorenson – Social housing in all areas 
 
- David Woo – Market based solution, new parks and rec centers 
 
- Ben Terrell –Permanent affordable housing, racial and social equity 
 
- Reina Tello – Affordable housing 
 
+ Ana Lee – High opportunity areas  
 
- Speaker – Housing plan that is truly racially equitable 
 
- Suree – Data does not show for American Indian 
 
= Speaker – Inequity issue, size and inventory 
 
- Katherine Howard – Public comment, Parks and open space, data 

San Francisco Planning Commission