The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
9. 
2021-007327PCA 
(A. MERLONE: (628) 652-7534) 
BUSINESS SIGNS ON AWNINGS AND MARQUEES [Board File 210810] – Planning Code 
Amendment – Ordinance amending the Planning Code to allow business signs on awnings 
or marquees in addition to projecting signs in various neighborhood commercial and 
residential-commercial districts, and in certain Chinatown mixed use districts; applying 
business sign controls to additional Neighborhood Commercial Districts; affirming the 
Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and 
making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of 
Planning Code, Section 101.1, and public necessity, convenience, and general welfare 
findings pursuant to Planning Code, Section 302.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Modifications 
 
SPEAKERS: 
+ Dominica Donovan, Aide to Sup. Stefani – Ordinance introduction 
 
= Audrey Merlone – Staff report 
 
- Charles coalition to SF neighborhoods – Oppose 
 
- George Wooding – Not about signs but better governance 
 
- Stephanie Peek – Only add to the visual clutter 
 
- David Osgood – Reduce property values 
 
+ Martin True – Signs should be considered specially for small businesses 
 
+ Katie Connery – Make a difference to safety in the city 
 
+ Linda Chapman – Difference between clutter and signs/awnings 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 9 of 10 
 
 
+ Randall Homan – Support 
 
- Tes Welborn – Will benefit the big chains not small businesses 
 
= Christen Evans – Suggest amendments  
 
= Corey Teague – Response to questions and comments  
 
= Aaron Starr – Response to questions and comments 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to question and comments 
ACTION: 
After hearing and closing public comment; Continued to October 14, 2021 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
 
10. 
2018-017026CWP 
(L. CHEN: (628) 652-7422) 
SAN FRANCISCO ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE FRAMEWORK AND GENERAL PLAN POLICIES – 
Informational Presentation – Staff will provide an informational presentation on the scope 
and community engagement plan for the Environmental Justice Framework and 
accompanying San Francisco General Plan policies, which are a collaborative effort of the 
Planning Department, other City agencies, and community partners. These updates are 
intended to meet the requirements of California Senate Bill 1000. They will also help 
implement provisions of the Planning Commission and Historic Preservation Commission 
resolutions centering the Department’s work on racial and social equity (No. 20738 and No. 
1127, respectively), which call for commensurate amendments to the San Francisco General 
Plan. This proposed addition of Environmental Justice policies into the General Plan is one 
component of a series of proposed amendments to the General Plan.   
Preliminary Recommendation: None-Informational 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= AnMarie Rodgers – Staff presentation 
 
= Lisa Chen – Staff presentation 
 
= Celina Chan – Response to questions and comments 
 
= Rich Hillis – Comments 
 
= Francisco Da Costa – Real time data 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
11. 
2015-018094CWP 
(D. JOHNSON: (628) 652-5555) 
UPDATE OF CONNECTSF, SAN FRANCISCO’S COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION PLANNING 
PROGRAM – Informational Presentation – ConnectSF builds a shared vision of an effective, 
equitable, and sustainable transportation system for San Francisco. This informational item 
will update the Commission on two of the program’s studies involving transit, streets, and 
freeways and potential implications for land use. This item also includes information on a 
pending update to the Transportation Element and the San Francisco Transportation Plan. 
The Commission, as the City Charter authority responsible for the General Plan, will review 
the schedule and process for revising the 1996 Transportation Element, a chapter of the 
General Plan. The Transportation Plan is a funding plan that falls under the purview of the 
San Francisco County Transportation Authority. The ConnectSF program joins Planning 
Department’s staff with partner staff at the Municipal Transportation Agency, County 
Transportation Authority, Office of Economic and Workforce Development, and Mayor’s 
Office. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None-Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Tam Tran – Staff presentation 
 
= Doug Johnson – Staff presentation 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 10 
 
 
= Speaker – Real data, need better trains and buses   
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
12. 
2021-002698CUA 
(M. CHRISTENSEN: (628) 652-7567) 
317 CORTLAND AVENUE – north side between Bennington and Bocana Streets; Lot 015 in 
Assessor's Block 5667 (District 9) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to 
Planning Code Sections 202.2, 303 and 738, for a Project proposing to establish a 1,402 sq. 
ft. Cannabis Retail use within the ground floor of an existing three-story mixed-use building. 
No on-site smoking or vaporizing of cannabis products is proposed. The Project Site is 
located within the Cortland Avenue NCD (Neighborhood Commercial) Zoning District and 
40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for 
the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h).  
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Michael Christensen – Staff report 
 
+Skip Alden – Project sponsor 
 
+ Jade Elizabeth – Project sponsor 
ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
MOTION: 
21008 
 
ADJOURNMENT 4:20 PM 
ADOPTED OCTOBER 21, 2021