The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the project 
sponsor team; followed by public comment for and against the proposal.  Please be advised that the 
project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
11. 
2020-002347CWP 
(J. SWITZKY: (628) 652-7464) 
UCSF PARNASSUS MOU – Informational Presentation by the Planning Department and the 
University of California San Francisco (UCSF) on the draft Memorandum of Understanding 
(“MOU”) between the City and UCSF regarding the proposed Comprehensive Parnassus 
Heights Plan (“CPHP”). The CPHP will guide changes and investment for the next 30 years at 
the Parnassus Heights campus and would accommodate up to approximately 2.05 million 
gross square feet of net new development at the 107-acre Parnassus campus, including 
approximately 750 housing units and approximately 1.15 million square feet of new clinical 
and research space, along with improvements in open spaces, circulation and support 
facilities. UCSF is seeking approval of the CPHP by the UC Regents at their meeting on 
January 20-21, 2021. The proposed MOU establishes commitments and investments that 
UCSF will make to the City in relation to implementation of the CPHP, including in areas of 
housing, transportation, workforce development and hiring, health care services, open 
space, and general coordination and process, among other topics. The commitments in the 
MOU are supplemental to any mitigations identified through the CEQA process. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Joshua Switzky – Staff Presentation 
 
+ Jeff Buckley – City Attorney’s Office Presentation 
 
+ Brian Newman – Project Sponsor Presentation 
 
- Dr. Teresa Palmer – Lack of commitment to hospital long-term care beds 
 
+ Judith – Support 
 
+ Emily Abraham – Chamber of Commerce, support 
 
+ Michelle Maine – SF Housing Action Coalition, support 
 
- Lori Liederman – Delay 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Pam – Support 
 
+ Conrad Amenta – Support 
 
- Kathy Cone – Impact on the immediate residents, quality of life 
 
+ Theo Gordon – Support 
 
- Ozzie Rohm – Public comment instructions not followed, breaks 
agreement, affordable housing 
 
+ Lope Yap Jr. – Murals 
 
- Sam Deutsch – Oppose 
 
+ Jeff Till – Quality of urban design, affordable housing 
 
- George Wooding – Delay, no neighborhood involvement 
 
+ Dave Brown – Support 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 8 
 
 
+ Matt Regan – Support 
 
+ Matthew Ajiake – Support 
 
+ Scott – Support 
 
- Tes Welborn – Where are the commitments, delay 
 
+ Martha Ehrenfeld – Support 
 
+ Patrick – Support 
 
+ Steve Marzo – Support 
 
+ Benjamin – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
- John Elberling – Affordability tiers, bad look 
 
= Richard Rothman – Murals in Toland Hall 
 
+ Mathew Blaine – Support 
 
+ Michael Chan – Support 
 
+ Derick – Support 
 
- Jeff Kohl – Study traffic and transit impacts, open space reserves 
 
+ Dr. Brian Grady – Support 
 
+ Michelle Leonard Bell – Support 
 
+ Maria Quevedo – Support 
 
+ Sara Hoffman – Support 
 
- Speaker – Janitors 
 
+ Sara Ogilvie – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Mark Evans – Support 
 
+ Corey Smith – Support 
 
+ Robert Fruchtman – Support 
 
+ Adam Buckbinder – Support 
 
+ Nicholas – Support 
 
- Speaker – Oppose 
 
- Anastasia Yovanopolous – MOU not finalized, how affordable 
 
- Speaker – Oppose 
 
- Speaker – Dangerous intersections, murals 
 
+ Speaker – 1987 MOU 
 
+ Miguel Bustos – Support 
 
+ Gene Brown – Support  
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to questions  
 
= Sara Jones – SFMTA, response to questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
13. 
2020-007461CUA 
(M. CHRISTENSEN: (628) 652-7567) 
1057 HOWARD STREET – the southeast side of Howard Street between Russ and Moss 
Streets, Lot 073 of Assessor’s Block 3731 (District 6) – Request for a Conditional Use 
Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 202.2, 303, and 840 to establish an 
approximately 2,385 square-foot Cannabis Retail use (d.b.a. Blue Pen, LLC) within the 
ground floor commercial space of the existing two-story mixed-use building, with no on-
site smoking or vaporizing of cannabis products, within the MUG ( Mixed-Use General ) 
Zoning District, the SoMa Youth and Family Special Use District, and 85-X Height and Bulk 
District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, 
pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 7, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 8 
 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Michael Christensen – Staff Presentation 
 
+  Speaker – Support 
 
+ Adam Shell – Support 
 
+ Eli Stavrinides – Project Sponsor Presentation 
 
+ Dave Terrell – Support 
 
+ Bradley – Support 
 
+ Johnny – Support 
ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
MOTION: 
20827 
 
14. 
2020-007488CUA 
(C. FEENEY: (628) 652- 7313) 
1095 COLUMBUS AVENUE – the west side of Columbus Avenue at the intersection of 
Francisco Street, Lot 032 of Assessor’s Block 0050 (District 3) – Request for a Conditional Use 
Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 202.2, 303, 722, and 780.3 to establish an 
approximately 1,140 square-foot Cannabis Retail use (d.b.a. Orange Pen, LLC) within the 
ground floor commercial space of the existing three-story mixed-use building, with no on-
site smoking or vaporizing of cannabis products, within the North Beach NCD 
(Neighborhood Commercial District) Zoning District, the North Beach Special Use District, 
and the 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the 
project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 
31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Claire Feeney – Staff Presentation 
 
+ Eli Stavrinides – Project Sponsor Presentation 
ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions 
AYES: 
Tanner, Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
MOTION: 
20828 
 
ADJOURNMENT 5:08 PM 
ADOPTED JANUARY 21, 2021