The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
10. 
2019-016230CWP 
(K. HADDADAN: (628) 652-7436) 
HOUSING ELEMENT 2022 – Informational Presentation – The Housing Element 2022 Update 
of the General Plan is San Francisco's first housing plan centered on racial and social equity. 
This plan will express the city’s collective vision and values for the future of housing in San 
Francisco. It will also identify priorities for decision makers, guide resource allocation for 
housing programs and services, and define how and where the city should create new 
homes for San Franciscans, or those who want to call this city home. This update is due late 
2022 and it will need to accommodate the creation of 82,000 units by 2031, a target set by 
State and Regional Agencies that has been tripled compared to the city’s current targets. 
This hearing will be the fifth informational hearing on this project at the Planning 
Commission. It will allow SF Planning to share the third draft of the 2022 Update and 
supporting documents, including: Housing Needs Assessment and Assessment of Fair 
Housing, Sites Inventory Report and Rezoning Program, Analysis of Government and Non-
Government Constraints Report, Evaluation of 2014 Housing Element Report, General Plan 
Consistency Analysis and Draft Amendments, and Racial and Social Equity Impact Analysis 
Scope. Publications of these required reports on March 25th serves as a 30-day notice 
required by State Law to seek public input on the contents of these reports. SF Planning will 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 7, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 9 
 
submit the Housing Element third draft packet to the State Department of Housing and 
Community Development on April 30th for their review and comments. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
 
= Kimia Haddadan – Staff Presentation 
 
= Sheryl Davis – Human Rights Commission  
 
= Eric Shaw – MOHCD 
 
= Emily Cohen – Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing 
 
- Georgia Schuttish – Rezoning Program will take three years. Commission 
should use their legislative authority in Section 317(b)(2)(D). 
Adjustment/Reduction of Demo Calcs would act as Interim Controls. The 
Commission has the legislative authority to implement Interim Controls 
which are needed to restrain speculation during three years. Draft 
highlights fact most of SF population is over 65. People in this age cohort 
seem to live mostly in areas that are being primed for Rezoning. Many in 
this cohort will die in the next decade+. Should analyze this demographic 
shift and what it means regarding housing needs/demand issues raised in 
Draft Element. Most tree canopy is in private rear yard mid-block open 
space. Soil is important too for carbon capture. Trend has been cementing 
over reary yards with excavations and retaining walls. The 2022 Housing 
Element needs to assess this loss of a productive way to fight Climate 
Change. 
 
- Joseph – Elimination of CUA public hearing process 
 
+ Jessica – Support 
 
- Zack Weisenburger – Equity for bipoc, reduced cost for renters 
 
- Ozzie Rohm – Misguiding 
 
- Kathy Lipscomb – Elimination vs Reduction 
 
- Lorraine Petty – Concerns, rent controlled units 
 
+ Sharaya Souza – American Indian data highlighted 
 
- Eileen Boken – Serious flaws 
 
+ Speaker – First step to do better 
 
+ Reina Tello – Costa Hawkins 
 
+ Corey Smith – Step in the right direction 
 
= John – High rise project 
 
- Robert Fruchtman – Pipeline data 
 
- Speaker – More does need to be done, pipeline analysis 
 
- Katherine Howard – Threatens the preservation of rent control units 
 
- Mitch Mankin – Costa Hawkins and Ellis Act 
 
- Charlie Sciammas – Rent Coalition and PODER, issues and concerns 
 
- Anastasia Yovanopoulos – Rental units 
 
- Speaker – CUAs, benefiting the developers but not tenants 
 
- Jan – Structural concerns 
 
- Mark – Plans for density for the west side 
 
- Larisa Pedroncelli 3/21 letter – Unhoused people 
 
- Angelica Cabande – BIPOC 
 
- Peter Papadapoulos – Mapping, population vulnerable for displacements 
 
- Dan Robinson – Market rate housing 
 
- Marisol – Rent control, right to housing 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, April 7, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 9 
 
 
- Eric Arguello – Private mixed-use development 
 
= Miriam Chion – Response to comments and questions 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions  
 
= Maia Small – Response to comments and questions 
 
= James Pappas – Response to comments and questions  
 
= Lydia Ely – MOHCD response to comments and questions 
RECUSED: 
Ruiz 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Comment 
 
11. 
2022-002129PCA 
(A. MERLONE: (628) 652-7534) 
ADULT SEX VENUES [BOARD FILE NO. 220264] – Planning Code Amendment – Ordinance 
amending the Planning Code to define Adult Sex Venue and principally permit, conditionally 
permit, or prohibit Adult Sex Venues in Commercial; Residential Commercial; Production, 
Distribution and Repair (PDR); Neighborhood Commercial; Neighborhood Commercial 
Transit; and Mixed Use Districts; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under 
the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the 
General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and findings of 
public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with modifications 
 
SPEAKERS: 
+ Jacob Bintliff, Legislative aide – Introduction to ordinance 
 
= Audrey Merlone – Staff Report 
 
+ Ken Row – Support 
 
+ Ed – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
 
+ Jessie – Support 
 
+ Gabby – Support 
 
+ Terry – Support 
 
+ Speaker – Support 
ACTION: 
Approved with Modifications 
AYES: 
Ruiz, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21097