The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised 
that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
15. 
2021-012562PRJ 
(J. VIMR: (628) 652-7319) 
77 BEALE AND 50 MAIN STREETS – Informational Presentation – Staff will introduce a 
proposal to substantially redevelop a downtown block that formerly served as the 
corporate headquarters for PG&E. The site in question is bounded by Market Street to the 
north, Main Street to the east, Mission Street at the south, and Beale Street to the west. As 
currently proposed, the project consists of four primary elements: 1) new office additions 
to the historic buildings at 215 and 245 Market Street; 2) demolition of an existing parking 
garage and construction of a 992’ tall residential tower consisting of 808 dwelling units; 3) 
replacing the core and entire exterior envelope of the existing office tower at the southern 
end of the site; and 4) provision of a publicly accessible open space throughout the 
remainder of the block with access from all four sides. The existing underground parking 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 6, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 11 
 
facility would be expanded and repurposed to predominantly serve the residential tower. 
Staff and the Project Sponsor are seeking early input from the Commission and interested 
members of the public, with the project continuing to undergo review. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None - Informational 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Jonathan Vimr – Staff report 
 
 
+ Paul Paradis – Project sponsor presentation 
 
 
+ John Pickard – Overall design presentation 
 
 
+ Rebecca – Design presentation of the residences 
 
 
+ Speaker – Landscape design presentation 
 
 
+ Corey Smith – Downtown revitalization project 
 
 
+ Speaker – Accessibility to more retail in the neighborhood 
 
 
+ Speaker – We need more housing 
 
 
+ Tuija Catalano – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
 
16. 
2020-004398ENV 
(M. LI: (628) 652-7538) 
SFO SHORELINE PROTECTION PROGRAM – Review and Comment on the Draft 
Environmental Impact Report. San Francisco International Airport is proposing the 
Shoreline Protection Program, which would install a new shoreline protection system 
around the Airport that would comply with current Federal Emergency Management 
Administration requirements for flood protection against a 100-year flood and would 
incorporate protection against future sea-level rise. The proposed project would remove 
the existing shoreline protection features and construct a new shoreline protection system 
comprised of a combination of reinforced concrete and steel sheet pile walls. These 
structures would vary from one reach (a segment of shoreline) to another, depending on 
the existing site characteristics, and would range in height from about four feet to about 
14 feet above the existing or newly graded ground surface, given that the elevation and 
slope of the ground varies for each reach.  
NOTE: Written comments on the Draft Environmental Impact Report will be accepted at 
cpc.sfosppeir@sfgov.org or at the Planning Department until 5:00 p.m. on October 17, 
2022. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Review and Comment 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Michael Li – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Kirsten Jensen – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Speaker – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
 
ADJOURNMENT 2:46 PM 
ADOPTED OCTOBER 20, 2022