The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
7. 
2021-011414CRV 
(D. LANDIS: (628) 652-7526) 
FY 2022-2024 PROPOSED DEPARTMENT BUDGET AND WORK PROGRAM – an Informational 
Presentation of the Department’s proposed revenue and expenditure budget in FY 2022-
2023 and FY 2023-2024, including grants; high-level work program activities for the 
Department in FY 2022-2023 and FY 2023-2024; and proposed dates where budget items 
will be discussed during the budget process. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Deborah Landis – Staff Presentation 
 
= Rich Hillis – Overview 
 
= Megan Calpin – Staff Presentation 
 
= Anastasia Yovanopoulos – More discussion on the Equity tool 
 
= Liz Watty – Response to questions and comments 
 
= Miriam Chion – Response to questions and comments  
 
= AnMarie Rodgers – Response to questions and comments 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
8. 
2019-016230CWP 
(K. HADDADAN: (628) 652-7436) 
HOUSING ELEMENT 2022 UPDATE – Informational Presentation – The Housing Element 2022 
Update of the General Plan is San Francisco's first housing plan centered on racial and social 
equity. This plan will express the city’s collective vision and values for the future of housing 
in San Francisco. It will also identify priorities for decision makers, guide resource allocation 
for housing programs and services, and define how and where the city should create new 
homes for San Franciscans, or those who want to call this city home. This update is due late 
2022 and it will need to accommodate the creation of 82,000 units by 2031, a target set by 
State and Regional Agencies that has been tripled compared to the city’s current targets. 
This hearing will be the fourth informational hearing on this project at the Planning 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 27, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 7 
 
Commission. It will allow SF Planning to share the second draft of the 2022 Update and 
demonstrate how the plan has been revised to respond to and incorporate substantial 
public feedback gathered during Phase II of outreach and engagement (April – September 
2021), summarized in the final Phase II Public Input Summary report. This hearing marks the 
beginning of Phase III of outreach and engagement, which will conclude in March. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
 
= Sheryl Evans Davis, Human Rights Commission – Comments 
 
= Eric Shaw, MOHCD – Comments 
 
= Kimia Haddadan – Staff Presentation 
 
= Shelley Caltagirone – Staff Presentation 
 
- Joseph – Difficult to review draft 
 
+ Corey Smith – Housing is coming to the western side of SF 
 
+ Bob – Focus on potential streamlining policies 
 
- Zachary Wiesenberger – Make significant changes so it centers equity for 
BIPOC and low-income communities 
 
+ Kenneth Russell – Use this opportunity to make our city better 
 
- Anastasia Yovanopoulos – Promote policies that result in a supply of 
affordable housing being built city wide 
 
+ Dave Alexander – Move forward 
 
+ Jessica – Up zone the west side 
 
- Eileen Boken – City survey, vacant units 
 
+ Speaker – Participated in the Bayview HP outreach  
 
- Ozzie Rohm – Rent control housing 
 
- Peter Papadopoulos – Use of maps, loss of blue-collar space 
 
+ Ira Kaplan – Climate change and impact 
 
- Lorraine Petty – Community input section, number of affordable housings 
 
- Bruce Wolfe – Center equity to BIPOC and low-income communities 
 
+ James Natoli – We need to build more homes 
 
- Larisa Pedroncelli – Blueprint to streamline profit-driven market rate 
housing development, allow 3 weeks to review draft 
 
- Robert Fruchtman – The city is in violation of state law, comply with 
Streamlining Act 
 
- Eric Arguello – Plan needs to be updated to support communities of color 
 
- David – Not In compliance 
 
+ Laura Foote – People are ready for next level of technicality 
 
-  Shantal – Update so it truly centers equity for BIPOC and low-income 
communities, request 3 weeks to review draft 
 
+ Speaker – Remain focused 
 
+ Annie – State funding 
 
+ Yonathan Randolph – List of sites, probability of development 
 
+ Adam – Need more housing 
 
+ Steve Marzo – Change the status quo 
 
+ Paul – Opportunity to change course 
 
- Tess Welborn – Who's going to pay for it 
 
+ Edward – Upzone 
 
+ Mike Chen – Window of opportunity 
 
+ Emily Crow – Property goals 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, January 27, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 7 
 
 
+ Jonathan – Upzone 
 
+ Kevin Burke – Meet the housing target 
 
= Miriam Chion – Response to questions and comments 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
9a. 
2018-016522CWP 
(B. HICKS: (628) 652-7528) 
SENATE BILL 9 CALIFORNIA HOUSING OPPORTUNITY AND MORE EFFICIENCY (HOME) ACT – 
Informational Presentation regarding Senate Bill 9 (2021 Atkins) and implementation in San 
Francisco. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Bridget Hicks – Staff Presentation 
 
= Trent Greenan – Staff Presentation 
 
+ Jeremy Schaub – Standard reasonable but want flexibility 
 
- Jim – Objective standards, more flexibility 
 
- Speaker – Need more time to review 
 
- Christopher Roach – Need more time to review, request continuance 
 
- Lucca – Massing standards 
 
- Vivian Dewire – Rushed 
 
- Julie Judson – Design standards 
 
- Georgia Schuttish – Challenging, should be delayed 
 
- Ronald Hughes – Decrease probability of more housing 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
 
= Kate Conner – Response to comments and questions 
 
= David Winslow – Response to comments and questions 
 
= Liz Watty – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
9b. 
2022-000447CRV 
(T. GREENAN: (628) 652-7324) 
OBJECTIVE DESIGN GUIDELINES (SB 9) – Request for consideration to Adopt Objective Design 
Standards related to the Housing Opportunity and More Efficiency (HOME) Act (Senate Bill 
9, 2021 Atkins). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 9a. 
ACTION: 
Adopted Standards as proposed for massing, permeability and 
landscaping; pushing out the architectural standards until further refined; 
establishing an 800 square foot minimum for the second unit; requiring a 
four-foot setback on all interior lot lines; and no roof decks on rear units. 
AYES: 
Chan, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21063 
 
ADJOURNMENT 6:25 PM 
ADOPTED FEBRUARY 10, 2022