The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised 
that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
8. 
2019-016230CWP 
(S. CALTAGIRONE: (628) 652-7425) 
HOUSING ELEMENT UPDATE 2022 – Informational Presentation – The Housing Element 
2022 Update of the General Plan is San Francisco's first housing plan centered on racial and 
social equity. This plan will express the city’s collective vision and values for the future of 
housing in San Francisco. It will also identify priorities for decision makers, guide resource 
allocation for housing programs and services, and define how and where the City should 
create new homes for San Franciscans, or those who want to call this city home. This 
update is due in early 2023 and it will need to accommodate the creation of 82,000 
housing units by 2031, a target set by State and Regional Agencies that has been tripled 
compared to the city’s current targets. This hearing will allow SF Planning to provide an 
overview of the Housing Element draft materials submitted for state review and posted for 
public review in October. Materials to be presented include draft policies and actions and 
supporting technical analysis. The draft materials can be found at the following link for 
review and public comment: https://www.sfhousingelement.org/october-2022-release.  
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Maia Small – Introduction of staff changes 
 
 
= James Pappas – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Reanna Tong – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Shelley Caltagirone – Staff presentation 
= Tom Radulovich – Focus more on sustainability, climate and health, 
form based codes, commitment to neighborhood planning 
 
 
= Georgia Schuttish – Written comments on 10/13/2022 on SB 9 
 
 
= Jessica – Get in compliance in January 
 
 
= Christopher Roach – Remove barriers and streamline implementation 
= Alex Lansberg – Multi family infill, housing sustainability in the west 
side, labor capacity, equity strategies 
= Jake Price – Needs metrics and accountability 
= Anastasia Yovanopoulos – Present a more compelling strategy 
= Speaker – Impacted of rezoning 
= Robert Fruchtman – Major components still missing, very poor 
feasibility, social housing rents and revenues from the city 
= Mitch Mankin – Rezoning program, can’t rely on federal funding 
= Mike Schiraldi -  Eastern part of Glen Park  
= Lorraine Petty – Community opposition as an obstacle to building, DRs 
= Kenneth Russell – Realistic plan to build 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
= Joshua Switzky – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
RECUSED: 
Braun, Ruiz 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission