The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised 
that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
10. 
2016-002706CWP 
(M. CHION: (628) 652-7437) 
TENDERLOIN ACTION PLAN – Informational Presentation – Staff will update the 
Commission on the community-based planning efforts in the Tenderloin neighborhood 
and coordination with City agency partners to meet community needs. Staff will provide 
an overview of the neighborhood’s diversity, challenges, and resources and an overview of 
the community-based efforts that lead to City agency coordination and collaboration. Staff 
will provide an overview of the Tenderloin Community Action Plan and City agency 
partners from Department of Emergency Management and Department of Public Health 
will present on street conditions and operations and health and wellness, respectively. 
Staff will present on existing streetscape and public space implementation activities.   
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Miriam Chion – Introduction 
 
 
= Andi Nelson – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Mark Mesa – Presentation 
 
 
= Crista Guetta – Presentation 
 
 
+ Speaker – For the people and by the people of the Tenderloin 
 
 
+ David Elliot Lewis – Thanks Planning for working with them 
 
 
+ Lisa – Recognized as a community 
 
 
+ Jaime Viloria – Always include the people in the plan 
 
 
+ Casey – Promotes resilience 
 
 
+ Renee Colorado – Excited and thank you for hard work 
 
 
+ Christy – Implement quicker, thank you for partnership 
 
 
+ Abigail – Clean and Safe Tenderloin 
 
 
= Aseel Fara – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Speaker – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Speaker – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
 
11. 
2022-003591CUA 
(N. FOSTER: (628) 652-7330) 
1196 PACIFIC AVENUE – north side between Jones and Taylor Streets; Lot 021 in Assessor’s 
Block 0157 (District 3) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning 
Code Sections 202.2(a)(5), 726 and 303 to permit a Cannabis Retail Use. The proposed 
project (“Project”) would establish a Cannabis Retail Use (d.b.a. “Positive Vision”) 
measuring 940 square feet within a vacant, ground floor commercial tenant space located 
at the subject property. The Project does not include a request for authorization of on-site 
smoking or vaporizing of cannabis products. The Project proposes minor interior tenant 
improvements such as installing sales counters, display cases, toilets, and some interior 

San Francisco Planning Commission