The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised 
that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
9. 
2022-009700PCA 
(A. MERLONE: (628) 652-7534) 
GATES, RAILINGS, AND GRILLWORK EXCEPTIONS FOR CANNABIS RETAIL USES AND 
EXISTING NON-RESIDENTIAL USES (BF 220971) – Planning Code Amendment – Ordinance, 
introduced by Supervisor Safai, amending the Planning Code to exempt certain existing 
gates, railings, and grillwork at Non-Residential uses from transparency requirements, 
subject to the provisions for noncomplying structures, and exempt Cannabis Retail uses 
from transparency requirements for gates, railings, and grillwork for a three-year period, 
and require removal of gates, railings, and grillwork installed pursuant to that exemption 
when a Cannabis Retail use’s business permit becomes invalid or the business ceases to 
operate; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California 
Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 8, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 9 of 11 
the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and public necessity, 
convenience, and welfare findings pursuant to Planning Code, Section 302.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Modifications 
SPEAKERS: 
= Audrey Merlone – Staff report 
+ Supervisor Safai – Introduction to ordinance
+ Connor Johnston – Security of social equity dispensary and small
business owners
+ Terrence Allen – Dispensary broken into
+ Sean Richards – Had windows replaced four times
+ Johnny Delaplane – Permit process, amnesty program
= Corey Teague – Response to comments and questions
ACTION: 
Approved with Modifications: replacing Mod. No. 1 with an artwork
requirement, to deter tagging; amend No. 2 with a three-year period from
the date of mailed notice to ground floor retail establishments; leaving
No. 3 as is; and adding a fourth modification for objective design
standards for gate mechanisms.
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner 
NAYS: 
Moore
ABSENT: 
Ruiz
RESOLUTION: 
21218 
10.
2019-016230GPA 
(J. PAPPAS: (628) 652-7470)
HOUSING ELEMENT – Informational Presentation – The Housing Element serves as San
Francisco's roadmap for meeting the needs of all its residents and is required by the State
to be updated every eight years. The Housing Element 2022 Update is San Francisco’s first
housing plan centered on racial and social equity. It includes policies and programs that
express our collective vision and values for the future of housing in San Francisco. The
purpose of this hearing is to respond to questions and receive feedback ahead of the
Housing Element 2022 Update’s adoption hearing on December 15, 2022. Staff will
provide an overview of changes made in response to input received from the California
Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD), Supervisors, Planning
Commissioners, and members of the public since publishing the most recent draft on
November 10, 2022. The most recent draft materials can be found at the following link for
review 
and 
public 
comment: 
https://www.sfhousingelement.org/november-2022-
initiation-release
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
SPEAKERS: 
= Miriam Chion – Staff report 
- Peter Papadapoulos – Timely housing process, keep opportunities for
Bipoc community voices, critical to launch in January
- Frieda Walker – Undocumented immigrant families vulnerable
- Joseph Smith – Reducing constraints silence low-income communities
- David Woo – Compliance with its legal obligation for fair housing, Prop I
fund must be recognize and included as a source of funding
- Tes Welborn – Budget for affordable housing
- Elliot Hellman – Ellis acted, support people from displacement 
- Eric Arguello – Affordable Housing Production Section 1.2.11 and
Cultural District Section 4.4.3

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 8, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 11 
 
 
 
- Robert Fructhman – Programs that reduce constraints 
- Charlie Sciammas – Retain all existing affordable housing funding, 
prioritize low-income housing 
 
 
- Janthal – Actions undermine racial and social equity 
 
 
- Speaker – Prioritize affordable housing 
 
 
- Milo Trauss – Pipeline, proposals not feasible 
 
 
- Maria – Community engagement process 
 
 
- Kevin Burke – Contra Costa Housing Element  
 
 
= Speaker – List of process improvement projects 
 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
None - Informational 
 
11. 
2017-014833ENV 
(J. DELUMO: (628) 652-7568) 
469 STEVENSON STREET – The project site is located on the block bounded by Stevenson 
Street to the north, Jessie Street to the south, 6th Street to the west, and 5th Street to the 
east (Assessor’s block/lot 3704/045) – Public Hearing on the Partially Recirculated Draft 
Environmental Impact Report. The proposed project would demolish the existing parking 
lot and construct a new 27-story mixed-use building approximately 274 feet tall with three 
below-grade parking levels, providing 178 parking spaces and freight/service loading 
spaces. The approximately 535,000-gross-square-foot building would consist of 495 
dwelling units, 4,000 square feet of commercial retail use on the ground floor, and 30,000 
square feet of private and common open space. The proposed project would also provide 
approximately 200 Class 1 bicycle spaces, 27 Class 2 bicycle parking spaces, and passenger 
loading zones on Stevenson Street and Jessie Street. In addition, the project sponsor 
would: 1) use the Individually Requested State Density Bonus Program and provide 
affordable housing units onsite and 2) seek certification of the proposed project as an 
environmental leadership development project. The Project Site is located within a C-3-G 
(Downtown General Commercial) Zoning District, Downtown Plan Area, and 160-F Height 
and Bulk District.  
Written comments on the revised chapters or portions included in the partially recirculated 
draft EIR will be accepted at CPC.469stevenson@sfgov.org or at the Planning Department 
until 5:00 p.m. on December 19, 2022. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Review and Comment 
  
SPEAKERS: 
= Jenny Delumo – Staff report 
- Milo Trauss – Waste of time 
+ Speaker – Community Benefit Agreement 
+ Rebecca Brown – Supports the project 
- David Woo – Collect study related to race, class and displacements 
+ Eric – Community activities, affordable housing 
+ Jessica – Disappointed of the delays 
- Anastasia Yovanapoulos – There should be more study done 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
 
G. 
DISCRETIONARY REVIEW CALENDAR   
 
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; 
followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed 
by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.  Please be 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 8, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 11 of 11 
advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or 
their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
12.
2022-000092DRP
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
1679 35TH AVENUE – west side between Lawton and Moraga Streets; Lot 020 in Assessor’s 
Block 1908 (District 4) – Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit No. 
2021.0629.3442 for the construction of a rear deck to a two-story single-family dwelling 
within a RH-1 (Residential-House, One Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk 
District. The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval 
Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative 
Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation:  Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Modifications 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff report 
ACTION: 
AYES: 
ABSENT: 
DRA: 
+ Bachul Koul – Project sponsor 
+ Karen Mar – Project sponsor presentation
Took DR and Approved with alternative for a glass fire rated railing, if Fire 
does not permit then the wall shall be set back three feet.
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
Ruiz
804
ADJOURNMENT 5:38 PM - IN HONOR OF MIKE HARDEMAN, FORMER SF FIRE AND PORT COMMISSIONER 
ADOPTED JANUARY 5, 2023