The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised 
that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
8a. 
2019-021810CUA 
(A. WESTHOFF: (628) 652-7314) 
729 BUSH STREET – south side between Powell and Mason Streets; Lot 22 in Assessor’s 
Block 0284 (District 4) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning 
Code Sections 209.3, 253, 303 and 608.14 to permit a Retail Service Use (Health Service) on 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 15, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 6 of 11 
the second floor, construct a building greater than fifty feet in height within a RC Zoning 
District, and to designate the subject property’s existing vertical blade sign as a vintage 
sign for a project which includes the conversion of, and a four-story vertical addition to, 
the historic adult theater space to allow for 3,824 square feet of medical office space, 3,418 
square feet of ambulatory surgery center space, and four dwelling units totaling 6,056 
square feet. The project site is located within a RC-4 (Residential-Commercial, High 
Density) Zoning District and 65-A Height and Bulk District. The Planning Department 
issued a Final Mitigated Negative Declaration pursuant to the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the 
project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 
31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Alex Westhoff – Staff report 
+ Brett Gladstone – Project sponsor presentation 
- Steven Vizio – Steps to mitigate sound 
+ Michael Morris – Project sponsor response to comments and questions
= Corey Teague – Response to comments and questions
+ John Lum – Architect response to comments and questions
ACTION:  
AYES: 
MOTION: 
Approved with Conditions 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
21219 
8b. 
2019-021810VAR 
(A. WESTHOFF: (628) 652-7314) 
729 BUSH STREET – south side between Powell and Mason Streets; Lot 22 in Assessor’s 
Block 0284 (District 4) – Request for Variance from the Zoning Administrator to address the 
Planning Code Requirements for rear yard and exposure requirements (Planning Code 
Sections 134 and 140 respectively). The project does not include a 25% rear yard as 
required in a RC-4 Zoning Districts. Additionally, one of the four dwelling units does not 
face an open area that meets minimum requirements for area and horizontal dimensions. 
The project site is located within a RC-4 (Residential-Commercial, High Density) Zoning 
District and 65-A Height and Bulk District. 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 8a. 
ACTION:  
ZA Closed the PH and indicated an intent to Grant. 
7a. 
2019-016230GPA 
(J. PAPPAS: (628) 652-7470) 
HOUSING ELEMENT 2022 UPDATE – Consideration of a Resolution to Adopt Findings in 
connection with the adoption of the Housing Element 2022 Update and conforming 
amendments – Pursuant to San Francisco Charter Section 4.105, Planning Code Section 
340(c) and Section 306.3, the Planning Commission may consider adopting Findings 
pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act, including Findings of fact, Findings 
regarding significant and unavoidable impacts, evaluation of mitigation measures and 
alternatives, and a statement of overriding consideration; adopting a Mitigation 
Monitoring and Reporting Program; and adopting Findings of consistency with the 
General Plan and priority policies of the Planning Code, in connection with the adoption of 
the Housing Element 2022 Update and conforming amendments to the Air Quality, 
Commerce & Industry, Environmental Protection, and Urban Design Elements. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 7 of 11 
 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt Findings and Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
Program 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= James Pappas – Staff presentation 
 
 
= Malena Leon-Farrera – Staff presentation 
 
 
- Jake Price – Still remains skeptical, make good with commitments 
 
 
- Gilbert Williams – Revenue of Prop I, rejects 8.1.5 – 8.1.8 
 
 
- Don Misumi – Removal of 8.1.5 – 8.1.8, displacement 
 
 
- Priya Prabhakar - Will only exacerbate displacement 
 
 
- Speaker – Roadmap to redevelopment, listen to the community 
 
 
- Janthal Labarento – Fair housing, low income must have a voice 
 
 
- Joseph Smooke - 8.1.5 needs to be removed, demolitions 
 
 
- Mathew – People’s capacity to afford is a huge disparity 
 
 
- Georgia Schuttish – Demographic shifts 
 
 
- Zack Wiesenberger – Supports Sup Mar’s letter 
 
 
- Kenneth Russell – Work hard on the implementation 
 
 
- Speaker – There’s a lot more to do 
 
 
- John -Constraints removal 
 
 
- Cheska – Rezoning 
 
 
- Speaker – Communities that are affected, remove 8.1.5 – 8.1.8 
 
 
- Adam – Status quo is not working 
 
 
- Robert Fruchtman – Real work is in the implementation 
 
 
- David Woo – Section 8 undermines the trusts of communities of color 
 
 
- Anastasia Yovalapoulos – Removal of Section 8 
 
 
- Charlie Schiammas – circuit breaker policies 
 
 
- Eric Arguello – Fair housing issue 
 
 
- Peter Papadapoulos – Significant concerns with 8.1.5 
 
 
- John – Santa Monica HE 
 
 
= Joshua Switzky – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Miriam Chion – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Kirsten Jensen – City Attorney response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Adopted Findings 
 
1.2.6 Continue and expand the City’s Public Land for Housing Program 
through public-private partnerships and use City resources to support the 
maximum number of permanently affordable housing units on 
underutilized publicly owned and surplus sites, balancing the financial 
needs of enterprise agencies and ensuring adequate space and resources 
to address gaps in community infrastructure, services, and amenities. As 
part of this program, continue to implement the City’s Surplus Public 
Lands Ordinance codified in Administrative Code Chapter 23A, in 
compliance with the state Surplus Lands Act (Government Code 54220-
54234). 
 
The Public Lands Program should include, but not be limited to: 
• Annual outreach and marketing of these sites to developers, 
especially non-profit developers; 
• Coordination across agencies, including the Mayor’s office; 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, December 15, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 8 of 11 
 
• Continue negotiations and completion of any necessary rezoning 
efforts on identified publicly owned sites that will accommodate 
the RHNA; 
• Facilitation and streamlining of any approvals and subsequent 
entitlements for proposed projects on publicly identified sites; 
• Development and implementation of site-specific incentives 
including but not limited to financial assistance, streamlined 
approvals, and reduced fees, to encourage and facilitate 
affordable housing development on publicly owned sites; and 
• Issuance of RFPs for sites ready for development annually. 
 
The City will target 500 to 2000 affordable units in the RHNA planning 
period. Revisit strategies as appropriate. 
------------------ 
1.3.3 Assess inclusionary tiers and requirements to address constraints on 
housing development including financial feasibility, to increase certainty 
for housing projects, to ensure that inclusionary requirements do not 
impede or undermine use of State Density Bonus Law, and to reduce staff 
time and need for specific expertise. Changes to inclusionary tiers and 
requirements must should improve or maintain the current affordability 
average affordability of inclusionary housing units. Changes to 
inclusionary tiers and their requirements should and retain or expand the 
number percentage of units required, including with consideration to 
rents, purchase prices, and HOA fees.  
------------------ 
8.1.5. If the City issues building permits for fewer than 29,049 new units  
by January 31, 2027, then the City shall enact and implement:  
• additional rezoning outside of Priority Equity Geographies and 
areas vulnerable to displacement, and    
• additional constraints reductions for housing projects, including 
existing projects in the development pipeline.  
 
This additional rezoning and additional constraints reductions shall 
accommodate 115% of the shortfall, minus any capacity created by the 
rezoning(s) in Action 7.1.1 in excess of 36,282 units.    
 
The scope of this additional rezoning and additional constraint reduction:   
• shall account for sites’ likelihood of development during the 
RHNA planning period, and affirmatively incorporate the results 
of an analytical model and the cumulative constraints analysis 
described in Action 8.1.8 to increase supply choice and 
affordability and accommodate the RHNA in the planning period. 
• shall not impose any new governmental constraints not already in 
effect on January 31, 2027 to the development of housing unless 
that constraint is offset by the repeal or mitigation of another 
constraint. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 15, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 9 of 11 
•
shall consider progress and implement strategies toward meeting
the RHNA goals by income group and AFFH objectives, including
strategies considered under 8.1.10.
•
shall consider outreach community engagement, in alignment
with 
Program 
area 
4.2 
with in areas that may be
disproportionately impacted with displacement risk beyond
Priority Equity Geographies.
The City shall complete this effort, if needed, by July 31, 2028. The City will 
implement this program in consultation with HCD, including HCD 
approval. 
------------------ 
8.1.6. In alignment with the provisions and purpose of the Housing Crisis 
Act of 2019 (Government Code 66300 et seq.), any City-adopted rezoning 
or development controls shall not impose any new governmental 
constraints to the development of housing unless those increased 
constraints are offset by the removal or reduction of other constraints. A 
“new governmental constraint” is a city-imposed requirement, including 
but not limited to process, fees, or design, that increases the cost of 
development not in effect on January 31, 2023, not including mitigation 
measures adopted in compliance with CEQA or a requirement adopted to 
specifically protect against a threat to health or safety. 
------------------ 
8.1.10 By January 2026, the Interagency Housing Element Implementation 
committee (see Action 4.1.4) will assess if the City has approved the 
appropriate housing units by income level to meet the RHNA goals. If the 
City is behind the pro rata affordable housing production goals the 
Interagency Housing Element Implementation committee should trigger: 
•
Increase of additional City funding for affordable housing and
pursuit of additional State funding
•
Increase the land banking strategy to accommodate 50 percent
more affordable housing units than the capacity of the sites
acquired from 2022 through 2025
The City will implement these actions in consultation with HCD. 
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RECUSED: 
Ruiz 
RESOLUTION: 
21220 
7b. 
2019-016230GPA 
(J. PAPPAS: (628) 652-7470) 
HOUSING ELEMENT 2022 UPDATE – Consideration of a Resolution recommending 
Adoption of a proposed Ordinance to amend the San Francisco General Plan to adopt the 
Housing Element 2022 Update and conforming amendments to the Air Quality, Commerce 
& Industry, Environmental Protection, and Urban Design Elements – Pursuant to San 
Francisco Charter Section 4.105, Planning Code Section 340(c) and Section 306.3, the 
Planning Commission may consider adopting a resolution recommending adoption of a 
proposed Ordinance to amend the San Francisco General Plan to adopt the Housing 
Element 2022 Update and conforming amendments to the Air Quality, Commerce & 
Industry, Environmental Protection, and Urban Design Elements. On November 17, 2022, 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 15, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 10 of 11 
the Planning Commission adopted Resolution No. R-21207 to initiate these amendments 
to the General Plan. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt Resolution Recommending Adoption of the Housing 
Element 2022 Update and Conforming General Plan Amendments to the Board of Supervisors 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 7a. 
ACTION:  
Adopted Update as Amended and read into the record by Staff. 
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RECUSED: 
Ruiz 
RESOLUTION: 
21221 
7c. 
2019-016230GPA 
(J. PAPPAS: (628) 652-7470) 
HOUSING ELEMENT 2022 UPDATE – Consideration of a Resolution to Initiate amendments 
to the San Francisco General Plan – Pursuant to San Francisco Charter Section 4.105, 
Planning Code Section 340(c) and Section 306.3, the Planning Commission may consider 
adopting a Resolution to Initiate amendments to the General Plan, a proposed revision of 
the Housing Element, and schedule a public hearing to consider adopting the proposed 
General Plan amendments. This initiation hearing is to consider when the adoption 
hearing will be held. If the Planning Commission passes the initiation resolution, the 
Commission will consider the content at the adoption hearing date of their choosing. 
Department staff propose the adoption hearing to be scheduled on or after January 5, 
2022, to provide for the possibility that the state reviewers may ask for additional 
amendments to the Housing Element 2022 Update and/or conforming amendments. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Resolution to Initiate 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 7a. 
ACTION:  
Initiated 
AYES: 
Braun, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RECUSED: 
Ruiz 
RESOLUTION: 
21222