The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised 
that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
11. 
2020-002065CWP 
(C. DE MESA: (628) 652-7476) 
SUNSET FORWARD STRATEGIES – Planning Department staff, District 4 Supervisor Gordon 
Mar, and representatives from the District 4 Youth and Families Network will present the 
Sunset Forward community planning process and strategies. The Strategies aimed to 
stabilize low- and moderate-income families and seniors in the Sunset with a focus on 
housing, small businesses and commercial corridors, and neighborhood services. Staff is 
seeking an Endorsement from the Planning Commission of Sunset Forward Strategies and 
that the Commission and City review and consider community needs, priorities, and 
strategies outlined in Sunset Forward when taking future actions on projects in District 4.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Endorsement 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
 
 
= Carla De Mesa – Staff presentation 
 
 
+ Ben Wong, Wah Mei School – Presentation  
 
 
+ Supervisor Gordon Mar – Closing remarks 
 
 
+ Lily Wong – Quality community engagement 
 
 
+ Cody Friesenborg Lee – Community will greatly benefit  
 
 
+ Lamar Heystek – Safer Westside 
 
 
+ Jessica Win – Great bridge building process 
 
 
+ Speaker – Serves as a model to community engagement 
 
 
+ Matt Pemberton – Great opportunity for community voice is heard 
 
 
+ Jessica Ho – Endorse 
 
 
+ Dawn Stickle – New era for the community to work together 
 
 
+ Don – Demonstrate an honest attempt to voice community efforts 
+ Annie Cheung – Access to senior housing and other resources for the 
well-being of seniors 
+ Jeff – SB50 
= Eileen Boken – Document inconsistency 
= Miriam Chion – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Adopted a Resolution of Endorsement 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21185 
 
12a. 
2018-002524CUA 
(G. PANTOJA: (628) 652-7380) 
20-28 FOUNTAIN STREET – west side between 24th and 25th Streets; Lots 085 and 086 in 
Assessor’s Block 6501 (District 8) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to 
Planning Code Sections 207, 209.1, and 303 for the merger of two existing lots, the 
construction of two three-story over basement duplexes, and the addition of an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit (ADU) at an existing single-family residence for a total of six dwelling units 
within a RH-2 (Residential-House, Two-Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk 
District. This action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of 
CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 

San Francisco Planning Commission