The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised that 
the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, 
expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
12. 
2022-005505PCA 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525) 
TENDERLOIN NEON SPECIAL USE DISTRICT [BF 220643] – Planning Code Amendment – 
Ordinance, sponsored by Supervisor Preston, to create the Tenderloin Neon Special Sign 
District within the North of Market Residential Special Use District; an anticipated Zoning 
Map Amendment to create the Special Sign District; enacting zoning controls for neon signs 
within the Special Sign District; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 10 of 13 
 
the California Environmental Quality Act; and making findings of consistency with the 
General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section, 101.1, and public 
necessity, convenience, and welfare findings pursuant to Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation:  Approve with Modifications 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff report 
+ Kyle Smeallie, Sup. Preston’s Legislative Aide – Ordinance Introduction  
 
 
+ Katie Connery – Increase public safety, lighting up our streets 
 
 
+ Randall Homan – Community spirit, important to the neighborhood 
 
 
+ Woody LaBounty – Character defining of the district 
 
 
+ David Elliot Lewis – Outreach, affirm culture and beauty of district 
 
 
+ Greg Johnson – Cost efficiency 
 
 
+ Felicia Smith – Safety  
 
 
+ Speaker – Brighter at night 
ACTION:  
Approved with Modifications and Staff amendments read into the record. 
AYES:  
Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Fung, Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21162 
 
13. 
2020-004398PRJ 
(M. LI: (628) 652-7538) 
SAN FRANCISCO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S SHORELINE PROTECTION PROGRAM – 
Informational Presentation – Staff will provide a brief overview of the Shoreline Protection 
Program, an infrastructure project designed to protect San Francisco International Airport 
against flooding and sea level rise. The project is currently undergoing environmental 
review. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Michael Li – Staff report 
 
 
+ David Kim, SFO – Presentation 
ACTION:  
None – Informational 
 
14. 
2021-010332IMP 
(L. AJELLO: (628) 652-7353) 
375 LAGUNA HONDA – Informational Presentation – bound by Laguna Honda Blvd, 
Clarendon and Woodside Avenues; Lot 007 in Assessor’s Block 2842 (District 7) – submittal 
of an Institutional Master Plan, pursuant to Planning Code Section 304.5, for the Laguna 
Honda Hospital & Rehabilitation Center. This is an informational item, and no action is 
required. The subject property is located within a Public (P) Zoning District and the 80-D and 
40-X Height and Bulk District. The IMP is not a “Project” under a California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Sections 15060(c) and 15378 because there is no direct or 
indirect physical change in the environment. Height and Bulk District.  
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Laura Ajello – Staff report 
 
 
+ Greg Wagner, DPH – Presentation 
 
 
+ Kathy Jung, DPH – Presentation 
 
 
+ Tim Donohoe, Mercy Housing – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Closed the Public Hearing 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 13 
 
5. 
2021-013037CUA 
(C. WENDT: (628) 652-7583) 
140 2ND STREET – southwest corner of Minna Street; Lot 003 in Assessor's Block 3722 (District 
4) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 210.2, 
and 303, to permit the installation of a new AT&T and Anthem Wireless Antenna Facility at 
the rooftop of the existing six-story building, consisting of twelve (12) new antennas, two 
(2) remote radio units, one (1) GPS antenna and ancillary equipment as part of the AT&T 
Mobility Telecommunications Network, within a C-3-O(SD) (Downtown- Office (Special 
Development)) Zoning District and 150-S Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes 
the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco 
Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Introduction 
 
 
= Chris Wendt – Staff report 
 
 
+ Project sponsor – Response to comments and questions 
 
 
= Rich Sucre – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions as amended to modify the stealthing method to 
a penthouse. 
AYES:  
Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
ABSENT: 
Fung, Tanner 
RECUSED: 
Diamond 
MOTION: 
21163 
 
G. 
DISCRETIONARY REVIEW CALENDAR   
 
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; 
followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed 
by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.  Please be 
advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or 
their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
16. 
2020-005176DRP 
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
45 BERNARD STREET – south side between Taylor and Jones Streets; Lot 030 in Assessor’s 
Block 0157 (District 3) – Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit No. 
2020.08.22.2415 to construct a rear addition; alter the exterior of the existing building; and 
to legalize an existing residential unit within a RH-3 (Residential House, Three-Family) 
Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. This action constitutes the Approval Action 
for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code 
Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve 
(Continued from Regular hearing on July 21, 2022) 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff report 
- Han Ming– DR presentation 
- Jennifer Mei – DR presentation 
- John Long – DR presentation 
+ Lindsay Huston – Project sponsor presentation 
- Speaker – Eviction of elderly and disabled, unaffordable housing 
- Speaker – Destroy space in the backyard, song 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 12 of 13 
 
- Melody Takata – Community space, cultural retention of neighborhood 
- Jerry Dratler – “Renoviction”, displacing people of color, roof deck 
- Ozzie Rohm – Necessity and desirability of project, rent for the UDU 
- Natara Lum – Mid block open space, quality of life  
- Shawn Cotter – Mid block open space, preserve air and light 
- Nelson – Nature is more important than money 
- Speaker – Importance of open space 
- Mr. Lum – Safety violations 
- Speaker – Unaffordable housing, impact on the tenants and community 
- Lisa – Backyard space 
- Ella – Outdoor activities for elders community is essential 
- Frank Sam – Sunlight and air, privacy 
- Ramon Murguia – Gathering spaces, connecting neighbors 
- Sue – Park 
- Mrs. Li – Backyard is important, stop the project 
- Cindy Kwong – Value of space 
- Winston – Preserve open spaces, safety 
- Anastasia Yovanopoulos – Profit driven project, impact to existing tenant  
- Robin – Open space is feasible and critical to neighborhood 
+ Taylor – Inaccurate information 
+ Sarah – Remediate dilapidated housing 
- Speaker – Proper legal procedure was not followed, lack of good faith 
- Sarah – Protect law income family 
- Stephen Booth – Law 
- Brian O’Neill – DR rebuttal 
= Speaker – Mis-information 
+ Tina Huston – Project sponsor rebuttal 
= Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney – Response to comments and 
questions 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
+ Speaker – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Took DR and Approved with modifications and conditions: 
1. No roof deck;  
2. No spiral stair; 
3. Configure the third floor to be identical to the second floor; and 
4. Update report within six months of BPA issuance. 
Recognizing: 
A reference to the Rent Control Ordinance as it relates to tenant rights, 
OMI evictions, the need to be able to locate previous tenants, first right 
of refusal at their previous rent rates, and that the current tenant may 
continue their tenancy for as long as they wish. 
Encouraging that the duration of any relocation of the existing tenant 
will be as short as possible and a green rear yard open space. 
AYES:  
Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore 
NAYS:  
Diamond 
ABSENT: 
Fung, Tanner 
DRA: 
 
793 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 6:00 PM 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 13 of 13 
 
ADOPTED SEPTEMBER 29, 2022