The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
15. 2023-009433PCAMAP 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525) 
900 KEARNY STREET SPECIAL USE DISTRICT [BF 231006] – Planning Code and Zoning Map Amendments – 
Ordinance, sponsored by Supervisor Peskin, to amend the Planning Code and Zoning Map to create the 900 
Kearny Street Special Use District; and affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California 
Environmental Quality Act, making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies 
of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and making findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare pursuant to 
Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Modification 
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff report 
ACTION:  
Approved with Modifications 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
Moore 
RESOLUTION: 
21453 
16. 2023-010508PCA 
(A. STARR: (628) 652-7533) 
CONSTRAINTS REDUCTION (AKA HOUSING PRODUCTION) ORDINANCE [BF 231142] – Planning Code 
Amendments – Ordinance, sponsored by Mayor Breed, amending the Planning Code to encourage housing 
production by (1) exempting, under certain conditions, specified housing projects from the notice and review 
procedures of Section 311 and the Conditional Use requirement of Section 317, in areas outside of Priority Equity 
Geographies, which are identified in the Housing Element as areas or neighborhoods with a high density of 
vulnerable populations, and areas outside RH (Residential House) Districts within the Family Housing 
Opportunity Special Use District; (2) removing the Conditional Use requirement for several types of housing 
projects, including housing developments on large lots in areas outside the Priority Equity Geographies Special 
Use District, projects to build to the allowable height limit, projects that build additional units in lower density 
zoning districts, and senior housing projects that seek to obtain double density, subject to certain exceptions in 
RH Districts in the Family Housing Opportunity Special Use District; (3) amending rear yard, front setback, lot 
frontage, minimum lot size, and residential open space requirements in specified districts, subject to certain 
exceptions in RH Districts in the Family Housing Opportunity Special Use District; (4) allowing additional uses on 
the ground floor in residential buildings, homeless shelters, and group housing in residential districts, and 
administrative review of reasonable accommodations; (5) expanding the eligibility for the Housing 
Opportunities Mean Equity - San Francisco (HOME - SF) program and density exceptions in residential districts; 
(6) exempting certain affordable housing projects from certain development fees; (7) authorizing the Planning 
Director to approve State Density Bonus projects, subject to delegation from the Planning Commission; (8) 
sunsetting the Conditional Use requirements established by the Corona Heights Large Residence and the Central 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 30, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 10 
 
Neighborhoods Large Residence Special Use Districts at the end of 2024, and thereafter limiting the size of any 
Dwelling Units resulting from residential development in those Special Use Districts to 3,000 square feet of Gross 
Floor Area; and (9) making conforming amendments to other sections of the Planning Code; amending the 
Zoning Map to create the Priority Equity Geographies Special Use District; amending the Subdivision Code to 
update the condominium conversion requirements for projects utilizing residential density exceptions in RH 
Districts; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; 
and making public necessity, convenience, and welfare findings under Planning Code, Section 302, and findings 
of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Modification 
SPEAKERS: 
= Aaron Starr – Staff report 
+ Adam Thongsavat, Legislative aide of Sup. Mandelman – Introduction to ordinance 
+ Carolyn Kenady – Promote diversity and equity in the neighborhood 
- Christopher Roach – Size limitations, original version with tenant’s displacement 
should pass 
+ Georgia Schuttish – Recently sold homes in Noe Valley 
- Zack Weisenberger – Email to Commissioners with request for amendments 
- Yonathan Randolph – Large buildings like apartment buildings, multi-purpose units 
- Ozzy Rohm – Rent controlled housing 
+ Sunny Angulo, Sup. Peskin Chief of Staff – Response to comments and questions 
= Austin Yang, CAO – Response to comments and questions 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Approved with Modifications, including a five-year serial permitting review 
AYES:  
Braun, Diamond, Koppel, Tanner  
NAYS:  
Ruiz, Imperial  
ABSENT: 
Moore 
RESOLUTION: 
21454 
17. 2021-005878CWP 
(L. CHEN: (628) 652-7422) 
EXPANDING HOUSING CHOICE (HOUSING ELEMENT ZONING PROGRAM) – Informational Presentation on 
upcoming zoning amendments to implement the Housing Element, in accordance with state requirements. The 
zoning proposal will increase allowable heights and density to enable additional housing production in state-
designated “Housing Opportunity Areas.” The presentation will share feedback themes from Phase 1 of 
community engagement, a revised Draft Zoning Proposal, key topics under consideration, next steps for the 
development of the rezoning proposal, and the latest development of draft Objective Design Standards for major 
corridors. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
SPEAKERS: 
= Lisa Chen – Staff presentation 
= Trent Greenan – Staff presentation 
= Eileen Boken – Proposal for zoning and housing clarification 
+ Christopher Roach – Supports all the recommendations and studies 
= Joshua Switzky – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
18.  
(D. SIDER: (628) 652-7539) 
UC COLLEGE OF THE LAW – Informational Presentation on recent and forthcoming development projects by and 
for UC College of the Law (formerly UC Hastings College of the Law) in furtherance of its development of an 
“Academic Village.” While not subject to the Institutional Master Plan requirements of Planning Code Section 
304.5, UC Law has requested the opportunity to report to the Commission and receive Commissioner and public 
comment. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
SPEAKERS: 
= Dan Sider – Staff presentation 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 30, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 10 
 
+ Rhiannon Bailard – UC Law presentation 
+ Anand Singh – Local 2 presentation 
+ Sue Hestor – Academy of Art University compliance 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
19. 2023-0108130OTH 
(C. TEAGUE: (628) 652-7328) 
ENFORCEMENT PENALTY GUIDELINES – Request to Adopt factors and criteria for consideration to provide 
guidance to the Zoning Administrator when determining the appropriate penalty amount for specified Planning 
Code violations, pursuant to Planning Code Section 176(c)(1)(C). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt the Proposed Resolution 
SPEAKERS: 
= Corey Teague – Staff report 
+ Georgia Schuttish – Helpful tools going forward 
= Sue Hestor – Schedule a joint hearing with BIC 
+ Speaker – Prioritize  
ACTION: 
Adopted Factors and Criteria adding a new No. 10 – Penalty amounts for past cases 
pursuant to… 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
Moore 
RESOLUTION: 
21455 
20. 2022-005146CUA 
(M. CHANDLER: (628) 652-7340) 
129 LAIDLEY STREET – north side between Harper and Fairmount Streets; Lot 030 in Assessor’s Block 6664 
(District 8) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.1, 249.92, 303, 
and 317, to demolish an approximately 1,951 square foot, single-family home and construct a four-story, 4,628 
total Gross Floor Area building containing a 3,720 square foot single-family home and a 908 square foot ADU 
(Accessory Dwelling Unit) per the State ADU Program. The Project proposes a Dwelling Unit with a Gross Floor 
Area of more than 1:1.2 Floor Area Ratio and more than 3,000 square feet of Gross Floor Area within a RH-1 
(Residential-House, One-Family) Zoning District, Central Neighborhoods Large Residence SUD (Special Use 
District), and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the 
project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
(Continued from Regular Hearing on October 19, 2023) 
SPEAKERS: 
= Mathew Chandler – Staff report 
+ Emily – Project sponsor presentation 
+ Jeff Gibson – Project design presentation 
+ Speaker – Project sponsor presentation 
- Steve Richardson – Issues on the objective standards 
- John Seymour – Privacy violations 
- David Huan – Non-compliance to the residential design guidelines 
- Tamara – Exceeding square feet limit, privacy violations 
= Liz Watty – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
Moore 
MOTION: 
21456 
G. DISCRETIONARY REVIEW CALENDAR  
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR 
requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed by the project sponsor team; followed 
by public comment in support of the project. Please be advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, November 30, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 10 
 
include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other 
advisors. 
21. 2022-007060DRP 
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
10 SEACLIFF – near 25th Avenue; Lot 013A in Assessor’s Block 1301 (District 1) – Request for Discretionary Review 
of Building Permit Application No. 2022.0621.6738 to construct a horizontal rear addition on the second floor, 
new decks on all floors at rear, new sunroom at third floor, and a new raised roof within a RH-1 (D) (Residential 
House, One-Family-Detached) and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The Planning Department found that the 
project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the 
Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code section 
31.04 (h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Modifications 
(Continued from Regular Hearing on October 19, 2023) 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff report 
+ David Armour – Project sponsor presentation 
- Jonathan Steitz – DR presentation 
ACTION:  
Took DR and Approved with Modifications presented by both parties 
AYES:  
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Tanner  
ABSENT: 
Moore 
DRA: 
 
843 
 
ADJOURNMENT 4:11 PM 
ADOPTED DECEMBER 14, 2023