The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised 
that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 12, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 4 of 8 
6.
2019-014146ENV 
(J. MOORE: (628) 652-7566)
LAKE MERCED WEST PROJECT – Certification of the Final Environmental Impact Report 
(EIR) – The project site is located on approximately 11 acres at 520 John Muir Drive on the 
south side of Lake Merced; Lot 004 in Assessor’s Block 7283 (District 7). The Recreation and 
Parks Department proposes a public recreational facility that would offer an array of 
activities such as trail use, picnicking, paddleboarding, kayaking, fishing, fitness activities, 
ropes course, birdwatching, outdoor exercise, skateboarding, basketball, and other 
activities on multi-use courts, as well as restaurant dining, and indoor space for gatherings 
such as community meetings and birthday parties. The existing buildings would be 
demolished. A new community building, restaurant, and patio would be built near the 
center of the site, along with a playground, multi-use court, basketball court, and picnic 
areas surrounded by meadows and natural areas. A new boathouse, boat dock, and 
watercraft soft landing area are proposed adjacent to the lake. An arborist office and yard 
are proposed at the southeastern end of the site; new restrooms, a ropes course, skatepark, 
and 80 public parking spaces are also proposed.
Note: The public hearing on the draft EIR is closed. The public comment period for the draft 
EIR ended on April 11, 2022. Public comment will be received when the item is called 
during the hearing.
Preliminary Recommendation: Certify
SPEAKERS: 
= Julie Moore – Staff presentation 
ACTION:  
Certified
AYES: 
 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
MOTION: 
21226
7.
2022-009297DNX 
(R. SALGADO: (628) 652-7332) 
1010V MISSION STREET – north side between 6th and 7th Streets; Lot 026 in Assessor's Block 
3703 (District 6) – Request for Downtown Project Authorization pursuant to Planning Code 
Sections 210.2 and 309 and Adoption of Findings related to the Individually Requested 
State Density Bonus Program pursuant to Planning Code Section 206.6 and California 
Government Code Section 65915 to demolish a surface parking lot and construct a nine-
story, approximately 84-foot-tall residential building containing 57 single room occupancy 
(SRO) dwelling units and approximately 2,050 square feet of common open space on the 
ground floor and on the roof, within a C-3-G (Downtown-General) Zoning District and 160-
F Height and Bulk District. The project seeks waivers from development standards, 
including the rear yard (Section 134); exposure (Section 140); reduction of wind currents in 
a C-3 district (Section 148); and bulk (Section 270) requirements of the Planning Code 
pursuant to State Density Bonus Law. The Planning Department issued a mitigated 
negative declaration pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The 
Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of 
CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rebecca Salgado – Staff report 
+ John Kevlin - Project sponsor presentation 
- David Woo – Does not support low-income families, no racial and social
equity analysis, please stand with the working-class residents
+ Sean Keighran – Fair, open and transparent process, affordable by
design

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 12, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 5 of 8 
+ Stephanie – Will bring much needed housing
+ Michael – Code compliant, replaces a parking lot and displaces no one
+ Amelia – We are in a housing crisis
+ Mike Stack – Affordable by design and replacing a vacant lot is a great
idea 
+ Ed – 13 affordable units is better than no affordable units
+ Thea – Code compliant and will bring much needed housing, stop
denying projects of empty parking lots
+ Joe – Should have no further delays
= Liz Watty – Response to comments and questions
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions
+ Reza Khoshnevisan – Response to comments and questions
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions as amended to include: 
AYES: 
NAYS : 
MOTION: 
1.  Moving the Jessie Street unit one foot and one step up;
2.  A review of moving the window and PGE meter; and 
3.  Adding a finding encouraging undergrounding PGE utilities. 
Braun, Diamond, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
Ruiz, Imperial
21227
9.
2022-003329CUA
(J. HORN: (628) 652-7366) 
3790-3792 21ST STREET – northeast corner of Noe Street; Lot 026A in Assessor's Block 3604 
(District 8) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code 
Sections 209.1, 303 and 317 to legalize the tantamount to demolition that occurred during 
the construction of alterations and additions to a 2,056 gross square-foot, two-story, two-
family dwelling that resulted in the current 4,831 gross square-foot, four-story, two-family 
dwelling located within a RH-2 (Residential- House, Two Family) Zoning District and the 
40-X Height and Bulk Districts. The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the 
Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco 
Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Jeff Horn – Staff report 
+ Tara Sullivan – Project sponsor presentation
+ Sachin Bavishi - Homeowner 
= Georgia Schuttish - How did this illegal Demolition happen? General
Plan Policy 4.1 in the Findings not met. This is not a remodel of existing
housing for families with children because it is an illegal Demolition and
the original flats were suitable for families with children. All the General
Plan Findings are challengeable. The Staff did request Demo Calcs per the
two NOPDRs from 2015. The Residential Flat Policy needs to be codified to
preserve existing housing unlike what happened with these flats. Section
317 (5) (i) Finding not met. Because of sales history, no relative
affordability protected. The two original flats, were livable, likely to be
separately occupied, located in a well-resourced, high opportunity
neighborhood, “contributed positively to the City’s housing stock”. Please
have a hearing to consider adjusting the Demo Calcs to close one loophole

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 12, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 6 of 8 
that has aided/abetted the speculative culture in housing since the 2008 
economic crisis. 
= Bruce Bowen – Second unit must be separate, change conditions as per 
Ms. Schuttish’ comments 
= Liz Watty – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
MOTION: 
21228 
10.
2020-007168CUA
(M. GIACOMUCCI: (628) 652-7414) 
2 LAKE STREET – north side of Lake Street between Arguello Boulevard and Second 
Avenue; Lot 011 in Assessor's Block 1355 (District 1) – Request for Conditional Use 
Authorization of a Planned Unit Development (PUD) on a site that is over one-half acre to 
expand an existing 88,690 square-foot Religious Institutional Use pursuant to Planning 
Code Sections 209.2, 303, and 304, to allow a Floor Area Ratio (FAR) of 2.3:1 and to modify 
the method of height measurement as part of a Project that includes the expansion and 
renovation of the Congregation Emanu-El building. The project would preserve the 
existing use and proposes a total expansion of approximately 17,130 square feet, including 
14,490 square feet of additional religious institutional space and approximately 2,640 
square feet of additional preschool space, as well as 4,900 square feet of new rooftop open 
space within a RM-1 (Residential- Mixed, Low Density) Zoning District and 40-X Height and 
Bulk District. The Planning Department issued a mitigated negative declaration pursuant 
to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes 
the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco 
Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Monica Giacomucci – Staff report 
+ David Goldman - Project sponsor presentation 
+ Speaker -  Project sponsor presentation 
+ Speaker –Design presentation
+ Steve Cohen – Very good neighbor, commitment to safety and effort to
traffic mitigation
+ Andrew Rosenthal – Will provide a courtyard where parents and kids
can meet safely
+ Laurie Coleman – Safety concerns and the need for additional classroom
space, security
+ Kirsten Wolberg – Seismic safety, more community space for the health
of the community
- Jonathan Pearlman – Project violates the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards, destroys significant historic character of the building
- Christine Madrid French – Treatment of the courtyard, character defining
features, add a CUA with the redesign of the courtyard 
- Erik Hom – Request improvements for safety and traffic and to the
courtyard, no noise ordinance, must have coordination of security
+ Mr. Smith – Good neighbor and always responsive to issues
+ Melissa Koenigsberg – Kids attended the preschool, integral part of
their lives
+ Jeremy Sasson – Much needed seismic updates, security

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 12, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 7 of 8 
ACTION: 
AYES: 
RECUSED: 
MOTION: 
+ Terry Kraus – Safety and security, changes to the courtyard 
Approved with Conditions, recognizing the Sponsor will continue working 
with Staff
Braun, Ruiz, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
Diamond
21229