The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed 
by a presentation of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment.  Please be advised 
that the project sponsor team includes: the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
 
 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 9 of 12 
3a. 
2022-000908CUA 
(B. GUNN: (628) 652-7367) 
361 UPPER TERRACE – west side of Upper Terrace; Lot 2629A in Assessor’s Block 035 
(District 8) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code 
Sections 303, and 249.77, to increase the rear roof height on an existing legal non-
complying portion of the building by approximately three feet and construct a new deck 
which extends into the Required Rear Yard. The Project Site is located within a RH-3 
(Residential-House, Three-Family) Zoning District, Corona Heights Large Residence SUD 
(Special Use District), and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The Planning Department found 
that the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The 
Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of 
CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Staff introduction 
= Branden Gunn – Staff report 
+ Amy Lee – Project sponsor presentation 
ACTION:  
AYES: 
MOTION : 
- Shelley Sutherland – Is the additional 1,000 sq ft necessary
- Speaker – Loss of view
- Ron Merida – View
After being pulled off of Consent, Approved with Conditions 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
21244
3b. 
2022-000908VAR 
(B. GUNN: (628) 652-7367) 
361 UPPER TERRACE – west side of Upper Terrace; Lot 2629A in Assessor’s Block 035 
(District 8) – Request for Variance pursuant to Planning Code Section 134 to increase the 
rear roof height on an existing legal non-complying portion of the building by 
approximately three feet and construct a new deck which extend into the Required Rear 
Yard. The Project Site is located within a RH-3 (Residential-House, Three-Family) Zoning 
District, Corona Heights Large Residence SUD (Special Use District), and 40-X Height and 
Bulk District and. 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 3a. 
ACTION:  
Acting ZA closed the PH and indicated an intent to Grant 
4.
2022-005541CUA
(C. ENCHILL: (628) 652-7551) 
855 GEARY STREET – south side between Hyde and Larkin Streets; Lot 019 in Assessor’s 
Block 0320 (District 5) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning 
Code Sections 209.3 and 303, to allow a change of use at the ground floor of an existing 
parking garage from Public Parking Garage (Automotive Use, Retail) to Fleet Charging 
(Automotive Use, Non-Retail) of the subject property within a RC-4 (Residential-
Commercial, High Density) Zoning District and 80-T Height and Bulk District. The Planning 
Department found that the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the 
purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code section 31.04(h).  
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Charles Enchill – Staff report 
+ Justin Zucker – Project sponsor presentation 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 10 of 12 
ACTION: 
After being pulled off of Consent, Approved with Conditions as amended 
by Staff 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
MOTION : 
21245 
G.
DISCRETIONARY REVIEW CALENDAR
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff;
followed by the DR requestor team; followed by public comment opposed to the project; followed
by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment in support of the project.  Please be
advised that the DR requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or
their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors.
12.
2022-000367DRP
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
379 EUREKA STREET – east side between 20th and 21st Streets; Lot 023 in Assessor’s Block 
2750 (District 8) – Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit No. 2021.1217.4661 
for the construction of a rear horizontal addition to a two-story over-basement, one-family 
building within a RH-2 (Residential House- Two Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height 
and Bulk District. The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the 
Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco 
Administrative Code section 31.04 (h) 
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff report 
- Ludovico Mazzola - DR presentation 
ACTION:  
AYES: 
DRA: 
+ Richard Tarlov – Owner 
+ Catherine Carr – Project sponsor presentation 
+ Project sponsor presentation 
+ Richard Craddock – Appreciate the communications, transparency and 
outreach
No DR
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
811
H.
2:00 PM
Items listed here may not be considered prior to the time indicated above. It is provided as a
courtesy to limit unnecessary wait times. Generally, the Commission adheres to the order of the
Agenda. Therefore, the following item(s) will be considered at or after the time indicated.
13.
2022-001838CUA
(C. ALEXANDER: (628) 652-7334) 
800 TARAVAL STREET – northwest corner of 18th Avenue; Lot 009A in Assessor’s Block 2347 
(District 7) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code 
Sections 202.2, 303, and 745 to establish an approximately 977 square-foot Cannabis Retail 
Use (d.b.a. “Green Mirror”) within an existing vacant commercial space with no on-site 
smoking or vaporizing of cannabis products within the Inner Taraval Street NCD 
(Neighborhood Commercial District) and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The Project 
proposes to convert an existing mezzanine area to a fully enclosed second floor. The 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 11 of 12 
 
Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the 
project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code section 
31.04 (h).  
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Christy Alexander – Staff report 
 
 
+ Angel Davis – Project sponsor presentation 
 
 
+ Michael – Project sponsor presentation 
 
 
- Lauren Lopez – Negative effects of marijuana 
- Speaker – Smoking can cause lung cancer, can cause car accidents, 
safety, near preschools  
 
 
- Selina  - Equity issue, CDC website 
 
 
+ George Rush – Owner is a good person 
 
 
 
 
- Maurice Wong – Owns a preschool nearby 
 
 
 
 
- Mindy Lui – Owns a preschool that is directly across the proposed store 
 
 
 
 
- Virginia Fabi – Alarmed and worried about kids’ safety 
 
 
 
 
- Moni Fong – Effects on students’ health and safety in the neighborhood 
 
 
 
 
- Teresa – Order it online 
 
 
 
 
- Speaker – Schools and preschools nearby 
 
 
 
 
- Dorothy Pang – Not the right location 
 
 
 
 
- Francis – Cannabis edibles, facts according to CDC 
 
 
 
 
- Doris – No fresh air in the neighborhood 
 
 
 
 
- Mandy – Effects to youth in the community 
 
 
 
 
- Hilary – Renting her house is impossible and effects of store 
 
 
 
 
- Sherrie – Smell of marijuana 
 
 
 
 
- Lizzie – Students in the neighborhood 
 
 
 
 
- Jeannie Chen – Effects to one’s brain 
 
 
 
 
- Speaker – Marijuana is not good for our health 
 
 
 
 
- Speaker – Concerned for grandkids, traffic accidents/incidents 
 
 
 
 
- Marylou Fabi – Concerns when walking to volunteer in church 
 
 
 
 
- Liana Lui – Children’s future, public safety issues 
- Peter Lee – Don’t need another Cannabis store, exposure to youths and 
students 
- Mark Solomon – Resistance of renters to small business 
- Josephine – Location is where kids hang out, not a welcoming business 
- Jane – Not qualified to educate or sell, operators are not in the medical 
field  
- Speaker – Hypocritical - Neighbors against project and city will approve.  
+ Stephan – Centrally located near public transportation for the disabled 
patrons 
 
 
 
 
+ John Wilson – Fully beneficial for the neighborhood 
 
 
 
 
- Amy – Small business around the neighborhood will suffer 
 
 
 
 
+ James – Benefits, must be 21 and older to purchase 
 
 
 
 
+ Serg Romani – Empathy for others  
 
 
 
 
- Speaker – Protect the children, have the dispensary elsewhere 
 
 
 
 
+ Amy – Will not draw in undesirable crowds 
- Wendy – They are not there to help the community; they are there to 
make a profit 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 2, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
      Page 12 of 12 
- Christy – Not the right location, protect our children 
- Ray – Marijuana affects the brain, decision making and attention
- Speaker - 64% of neighborhood is Chinese and not respecting their 
request to not approve
- Diane – Unsanitary exposure
+ Jan Frank – Safe and heavily regulated
- Speaker – Concerns due to increase in drug access
- Lisa – Too close to school and children, order online
+ Speaker -  Dispensaries are a part of the city for many years
+ Jessie – The dispensary brings value to the neighborhood 
- Speaker – Family oriented place
- Ming Chu – Recreational use is not appropriate in the neighborhood 
- Tina Young – Has school age kids and does not want them to be exposed 
ACTION: 
AYES: 
MOTION : 
+ Domenico Digrande – Owner of Golden Mirror, response to comments 
and questions
+ Angel Davis –project sponsor, response to comments and questions
+ Michael – Project sponsor, response to comments and questions
+ Nina – project sponsor team, response to comments and questions
= Mathew Chandler – Response to comments and questions
Approved with Conditions as amended to include a condition on signage 
as read into the record by Staff
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
21246
ADJOURNMENT 5:12 PM 
ADOPTED FEBRUARY 15, 2023