The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
10. 2023-008250PCAMAP 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525) 
NON-PROFIT ARTS EDUCATION SPECIAL USE DISTRICT [BF 230294] – Planning Code and Zoning Map
Amendments – Ordinance, sponsored by Supervisor Peskin, to amend the Planning Code to create the Non-
Profit Arts Education Special Use District (Assessor’s Parcel Block No. 49, Lot No. 1, generally bounded by
Francisco Street, Jones Street, Chestnut Street, and Leavenworth Street, and numbered as 800 Chestnut Street); 
amending the Zoning Map to show the Non-Profit Arts Education Special Use District; affirming the Planning 
Department’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency
with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101; and making findings of public 
necessity, convenience, and welfare pursuant to Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve 
(Continued from Regular Hearing on November 2, 2023) 
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff report 
+ Andy Levine – Diego River mural 
+ Gregg Fudd – SFAI legacy foundation and archive
+ Eileen Boken – Proposal is clear and unambiguous 
+ Kimmy Okada – Founding member of ODC, vision supports emerging artists
+ Stephen Beal – Reimagined institution 
ACTION: 
Approved with Conditions
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore
ABSENT: 
Tanner 
RESOLUTION: 
21436 
11. 2022-010182CWP 
(L. LANGLOIS: (628) 652-7472)
DOWNTOWN UPDATE – Informational Presentation – The Planning Department and Office of Economic and
Workforce Development will discuss coordinated City efforts to address Downtown revitalization. The
presentation will include progress made on the Mayor’s Roadmap, highlight focus areas from the Planning
Department’s work program over the next six months, the Community Equity Advisory Council will share their
Vision Statement for the Future of Downtown, and representatives from the Urban Land Institute (ULI) and 
panelists from the May 2023 Advisory Services Panel (ASP) on Downtown will share their findings and priorities. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 

San Francisco Planning Commission