The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
17. 2018-008802MAP 
(G. PANTOJA: (628) 652-7380) 
68 NANTUCKET AVENUE – Request for Zoning Map Amendments to amend Sectional Map ZN11 of the Zoning 
Map to rezone Assessor’s Block 3144B, Lots 027A and 036A, known as 68 Nantucket Avenue, from Public (P) to 
Residential-House, One-Family (RH-1) Zoning District; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under 
the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight 
priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and making findings of public necessity, convenience, and 
welfare under Planning Code, Section 302. The proposed amendments will be before the Commission so that it 
may recommend approval, rejection, or approval with modifications to the Board of Supervisors. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Recommend Approval to the Board of Supervisors 
SPEAKERS: 
= Gabriella Pantoja – Staff report 
 
+ Darren - Project sponsor presentation 
ACTION: 
Approved 
AYES: 
Braun, Ruiz, Diamond, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Tanner 
NAYS: 
None 
RESOLUTION: 
21430 
18. 2022-12254CUA 
(J. HORN: (628) 652-7366) 
2001 37TH AVENUE – west side between Rivera Street and Pacheco Street; Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 2094 
(District 4) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 209.1, 303, 304 and 
317to amend an existing Planned Unit Development (PUD) for St. Ignatius College Preparatory to allow the 
expansion of an existing private secondary school (St. Ignatius College Preparatory) with the demolition of five 
buildings, which includes a 34-room dormitory, and construction of an addition to the existing main academic 
building. Under the PUD, the project is seeking an exception to rear yard (Planning Code Section 134) 
requirements. The subject property is located within a RH-1 (Residential-House, One Family) Zoning District and 
40-X Height and Bulk District. The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for 
the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code section 31.04 (h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Jeff Horn – Staff report 
 
+ Michelle Nevin Levine  – Project sponsor presentation 
 
+ Felicia Dunham – Project sponsor presentation 
 
- Lance Mellon, Sunset Community Garden – Organized opposition, detrimental to the 
garden and community 
 
- Speaker, Sunset Community Garden - Organized opposition, doesn’t fulfill 
requirements 
 
- Nancy Murphy, Sunset Community Garden – Organized opposition, will hamper 
growth of plants due to shadow 
 
- Mike - Sunset Community Garden - Organized opposition, garden is therapeutic for 
seniors that visits the garden 
 
+ Sophia Perrodomo – New classrooms will help students grow academically 
 
+ Speaker – Will benefit the students, more room for students to study 
 
+ Speaker – Makes students comfortable and safe 
 
+ Alex – Current halls are narrow, new plans will create new opportunities for 
students to study 
 
+ Speaker – Excited for his sister that will start going to St. Ignatius 
 
+ Hannah Basi – Will provide a new learning environment for new students 
 
+ Eugene Torres - Improve mental health of students 

San Francisco Planning Commission