The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
3. 
2023-010718CUA 
(W. WONG: (628) 652-7466) 
1337 MISSION STREET – southwest corner of Washburn Street; Lot 037 in Assessor’s Block 3509 (District 6) – 
Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 210.2 and 303, to establish a 
Parcel Delivery Service Use (a cannabis delivery business), within an existing vacant retail space on the second 
floor of an existing three story commercial building, within a C-3-G (Downtown General Commercial) Zoning 
District and 160-M Height and Bulk District. There will be no expansion of the existing building envelope. The 
Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). 
The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to 
San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
- Mark Gleason – Request to pull off of Consent and for a continuance 
= Wesley Wong – Staff report 
+ Ajaz Syed – Project sponsor presentation 
- Mark Gleason – Would like to have continued discussion with the applicant 
regarding adequate wages and benefits, compliance with legislation 
- Rudy Gonzales – Request a limited continuance 
ACTION:  
After being pulled off Consent, Continued to October 24, 2024 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
Imperial 
8. 
2024-007228PCA 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525) 
AUTHORIZE INCREASES TO THE AFFORDABLE PRICE AND INCOME LIMITS FOR CERTAIN BELOW MARKET RATE 
OWNED UNITS [BF 240802] – Planning Code Amendments – An ordinance, sponsored by Supervisor Melgar, to 
amend the Planning Code to allow certain Below Market Rate (BMR) Owned Units to be resold at a price 
affordable to households at an increased Area Median Income (AMI) level, and to increase the qualifying AMI 
limit for BMR purchasers; and affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California 
Environmental Quality Act, making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies 
of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and making findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare pursuant 
to Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications 
(Continued from Regular hearing on October 10, 2024) 
Note: On October 10, 2024, after hearing and closing public comment, and after a motion to Adopt a 
Recommendation for Approval with modifications to delegate; recommend the BoS consider a sunset clause; 
and to include a reporting mechanism failed +3 -3 (Williams, Imperial, Moore against); Continued to October 
17, 2024 by a vote of +5 -1 (Campbell against; Braun absent). 
SPEAKERS: 
= Aaron Starr – Staff report 
+Supervisor Myrna Melgar – Explains and respond to comments and questions 
regarding the ordinance 
+ Cissy Yin – Response to comments and questions 
+ John Avalos – Consider amendments, redesign homeownership programs 
- Calvin Welch – Include developer’s responsibility to meet  
+ Amy Jansuk – BMR owner trying to sell 
+ Simon Jansuk – Keep BMR price affordable 
+ Jennifer Rosdail – Buyers 
ACTION: 
Adopted a Recommendation for Approval as amended to include: 

San Francisco Planning Commission