The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
11. 2024-002677PCA 
(G. PANTOJA: (628) 652-7380) 
WAWONA STREET AND 45TH AVENUE CULTURAL CENTER SPECIAL USE DISTRICT [BOARD FILE NO. 240228] – 
Planning Code Text, Local Coastal Program Amendment – An ordinance, sponsored by Board of Supervisors 
Aaron Peskin and Joel Engardio, to amend the Planning Code to clarify the Wawona Street and 45th Avenue 
Special Use District’s height limit and principal permitted use for purposes of the Local Coastal Program; 
amending the Local Coastal Program to add the Wawona Street and 45th Avenue Cultural Center Special Use 
District; amending the Local Coastal Program to designate the principal permitted use within the City’s Coastal 
Zone for purposes of appeal to the California Coastal Commission; affirming the Planning Department’s 
determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General 
Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and making findings of public necessity, 
convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, Section 302. The proposed amendments will be before the 
Commission so that it may recommend approval, rejection, or approval with modifications to the Board of 
Supervisors. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve 
SPEAKERS: 
= Gabriela Pantoja – Staff report 
+ Jonathan Goldberg, Legislative Aide of Sup. Engardio – Introduction to the 
ordinance 
- Eileen Boken – Opposed unless amended, address not in PIM 
+ John Kevlin – Acknowledgements 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, May 2, 2024 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 8 
 
 
= Dan Sider – Response to comments and questions 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Approved 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
RESOLUTION: 
21554 
G. DISCRETIONARY REVIEW CALENDAR  
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR 
requestor team; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the DR 
requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
12. 2023-002390DRP 
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
426 FILLMORE STREET, UNIT C – east side between Oak and Page Streets; Lot 056 in Assessor’s Block 0842 (District 
5) – Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit No. 2023.0310.3504 to legalize a third-floor roof deck 
within the existing footprint to a three-unit building within a RM-1 (Residential Mixed – Low Density) Zoning 
District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the 
project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Do Not Take Discretionary Review and Approve 
(Continued from Regular hearing on March 14, 2024) 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff report 
- Loran Simon – DR presentation 
+ Todd Brabec – Project sponsor presentation 
+ Deborah Rosenthal – HOA 
ACTION: 
 No DR  
 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
DRA: 
 
856 
13. 2023-004324DRP 
(L. AJELLO: (628) 652-7353) 
2330 LANE STREET – west side between Yosemite and Armstrong Avenues; Lot 014 in Assessor's Block 5418 
(District 10) – Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit Application Numbers 2023.0202.1301 and 
2023.0202.1302 pursuant to Planning Code Section 210.4, which proposes to demolish the existing non-
residential structures and construct a new one-story commercial building. Change of use from automotive use 
to industrial agriculture for cannabis cultivation, cannabis retail with consumption lounge, and light 
manufacturing for non-VOC cannabis cultivation, within a M-1 (Light Industrial) Zoning District and 65-J Height 
and Bulk District. The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of 
CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Laura Ajello – Staff report 
- Josephine Zhao – DR presentation 
+ Mubasher Choudhery – Project sponsor presentation 
- Sammy Wang – Neighborhood safety concerns 
- Speaker – Allergies 
- Speaker – Negative effect 
- Speaker – Safety for seniors and children 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, May 2, 2024 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 8 
 
 
- Speaker – Unpleasant smell, safety and health of seniors and children 
- Speaker – Negative impact to neighbors 
- Danny – Concerns for seniors and youth mental health and safety 
- Speaker – Oppose 
- Eugene Jang – Bad for mental and physical health, security 
- Speaker – We need a healthy community and safe environment 
- Su Men Yee – Negative side effects to health 
- Speaker – Negative effects to health 
- Speaker – Safety concerns 
- Speaker – Safety concerns and negative impact to neighborhood 
- Speaker – Safety concerns for seniors 
- Shao Yun Li – Odor 
- Speaker – Seniors’ safety, crimes 
- Speaker – Mental and physical health 
- Speaker – Incidents, safety concerns especially for the youth 
-  Jo Sang Woo – Negative impact to seniors and the youth   
- Speaker – Oppose 
- Deanna – Location is not located in a commercial corridor 
= Matthew Chandler – Response to comments and questions 
= Rich Sucre – Response to comments and questions 
= Ella Samonsky – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
No DR and Approve as proposed adding a Finding to the DRA memo, encouraging 
the Sponsor to engage in additional dialogue with the Bayview CAC. 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
DRA: 
 
857 
ADJOURNMENT 2:53 PM 
ADOPTED JUNE 6, 2024