The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
7. 2018-014712CWP 
(D. NGO: (628) 652-7591) 
2025 DRAFT HAZARDS AND CLIMATE RESILIENCE PLAN – Informational Presentation – Staff will provide an 
informational presentation on the 2025 update to the Hazards and Climate Resilience Plan (HCR). The HCR is an 
action plan for building a safer and more resilient future in San Francisco by reducing the impacts of hazards such 
as earthquakes, landslides, and pandemics. The HCR also addresses the ways in which hazards like flooding, 
extreme heat, and wildfire smoke are becoming more frequent and severe due to climate change. As the City’s 
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)-approved Local Hazard Mitigation Plan, it is required to be 
updated every five years for the City to be eligible for critical FEMA funding sources. Reference and adoption of 
the HCR in the Safety and Resilience Element allows San Francisco to be compliant with SB 379 and considered 
for additional state cost-share on eligible FEMA Public Assistance projects per AB 2140. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
SPEAKERS: 
= Danielle Ngo – Introduction  
+ Melissa Higbee, ORCP – Presentation 
= Rachael Tanner – Response to comments and questions 
+ Alex Morrison, ORCP – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
 
8. 2022-009819ENV 
(M. CALPIN: (628) 652-7508) 
3400 LAGUNA STREET – north of Francisco Street, south of Bay Street, west of single- and multi-family residences 
along Octavia Street, and east of Laguna Street. Lot 003 in Assessors Block 0471 (District 2) – Public Hearing on 
the Draft Environmental Impact Report. The current and proposed use is an Institutional Residential Care Facility 
for the Elderly named Heritage on the Marina. The proposed project would: 1) demolish two of the ﬁve existing 
buildings (the Perry Building Connector and the Health Center); 2) construct two new buildings (the Bay Building 
and the Francisco Building); 3) add a new curb cut along Bay Street and construct a below-grade garage 
underneath the two new buildings; 4) renovate the historically-rated Julia Morgan Building and the Perry 
Building; and 5) add bulb outs at the two intersections on the project site frontage. In total, the proposed project 
would add approximately 58,380 square feet of institutional uses, increase the number of residential care suites 
by 23 from 86 to 109, and reconfigure off-street loading and parking. The project is within a RM-1 (Residential - 
Mixed, Low Density) Use District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  

San Francisco Planning Commission