The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
9. 
2024-008951PCA 
(A. MERLONE: (628) 652-7523) 
HEALTH SERVICE USES IN WEST PORTAL NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT [BF 240903] – Planning Code 
Amendments – An ordinance, sponsored by Supervisor Melgar, amending the Planning Code to permit certain 
Health Service Uses up to 5,000 gross square feet without a conditional use permit in the West Portal 
Neighborhood Commercial District; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California 
Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies 
of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and making findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare pursuant 
to Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modification 
SPEAKERS: 
= Aaron Starr – Staff report 
+ Dr. Lillie Mosaddegh – Delay will cause closure of her practice 
+ Michael Farrah, Legislative aide to Sup. Melgar - 
+ Paul Barbagelata – Do not delay 
ACTION:  
Adopted a Recommendation of Approval as proposed by the Supervisor 
AYES:  
Campbell, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
McGarry 
RESOLUTION: 
21655 
 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 5, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 7 of 9 
 
10. 2024-009362PCA 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525) 
THIRD STREET ALCOHOL RESTRICTED USE DISTRICT [BF 240932] – Planning Code Amendments – An ordinance, 
sponsored by Supervisor Walton, to amend the Planning Code to create an exception for certain distilleries, 
wineries, and breweries to establish on-sale liquor establishments in the Bayview Neighborhood Commercial 
District, subject to a conditional use authorization; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under 
the California Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight 
priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1; and making findings of public necessity, convenience, and 
welfare pursuant to Planning Code, Section 302. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modification 
SPEAKERS: 
= Veronica Flores – Staff report 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Adopted a Recommendation of Approval as proposed by the Supervisor 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
Campbell 
ABSENT: 
McGarry 
RESOLUTION: 
21656 
11. 2015-000988CWP 
(O. GRANDE: (628) 652-7501) 
MISSION ACTION PLAN 2030 STRATEGIES – Endorsement – Staff will present updates on the Mission Action Plan 
2030 (originally entitled MAP2020), a key community-driven planning initiative within the Mission Plan Area 
and District 9 Supervisorial boundaries. MAP2030 facilitates collaboration between Mission District residents, 
community organizations, small businesses, and government agencies to address housing affordability, 
cultural preservation, and economic stability. Over the past eight years, this partnership has successfully 
advanced affordable housing production and preservation, small business support along cultural commercial 
corridors, and targeted solutions to community-identified challenges. The Planning Commission will be asked 
to endorse the updated MAP strategies to sustain and expand this vital community-based planning work. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Endorsement of Mission Action Plan 2030 Strategies 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rich Hillis – Staff introduction 
= Oscar Grande – Staff presentation 
+ Lucia Obregon – MAP presentation 
= Georgia Schuttish – Housing = Income Inequality Issues? 25th and Alabama Streets 
before/after. Approved as Alteration prior to Section 317 and Demo Calcs. Became 
illegal AirBnB. Later high-end rental. How would Citywide Survey staff analyze today? 
A-rated? York Street before/after. Alteration, after Section 317 Demo Calcs approved. 
Completed 2018. Did create a second unit, both equal in size sold almost $2.5 million 
each. Appears to have been UDU in the original building. Comparing these: One project 
was pre-Section 317 Demo Calcs and one was post-Section 317 Demo Calcs. Strongly 
suggests that TTD thresholds are inadequate preservation tool and the Demo Calcs 
should be adjusted. Finally 166-168 Hampshire, there are actually four flats there. One 
of the oldest structures in the Calle 24. Sold Summer 2017 $1.5 Million. Tenants evicted 
in 2018. Flats turned into TICs sold $900K each. Million dollar profit for the developer. 
Adult and child in 2016 photo before eviction. 
+ Jessica Rubio, Mission Economic Agency – Support from businesses 
+ Mary Travis Allen - Commitment 
- Tess Malek – Impacts to residents 
- Lucy – Excludes the majority of residents and businesses 
+ Mary Jean Robertson – Responsibility to the land, cultural events 
+ Lou – History of the neighborhood 
- Craig Weber – Missing a lot of information, flaws in the report 
+ Roberto Alfaro, HOMEY – Vision of the community 
+ Jose Luis Pabon – Cannot afford to live in the Mission  
+ Speaker – Affordable housing 
+ Speaker – Impacts of gentrification 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 5, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 9 
 
+ Jenny Aguirre – Small business owner, concerns on safety, street cleanliness, lack of 
parking, graffiti, homelessness 
+ Lizette Parilla – Small business owner, safety concerns 
+ Alicia Bustos Sandoval – Prevent displacements 
+ Aristos Kemiji, MEDA – Support to local small businesses, neighborhood programs 
+ Natalie Ortiz – Events and activities 
+ Crystal San Luna – Safety of kids in the neighborhood 
+ Jessica – Safety of kids in the neighborhood 
+ Angel, BAAITS – Housing, education 
+ Dr. Martina Ayala, MCCLA – Lack of proper funding, accountability 
+ Francisco – Displacement 
+  Guillermina – Displacement 
+ Ana Tolico – Support 
+ Elsa – Support 
+ Omar Del Real – Support 
+ Ani Rivera, Galeria de la Raza – Support 
+ Sofia – Support 
+ Pedro – Support 
+ Rodrigo Lopez, Mission Street Vendors – Prevent displacement in the neighborhood 
+ Ruel Valderama – Support 
+ Kelly Hill – Effective community-based planning 
+ Reina – Stability, will benefit the whole city 
+ Tere Almaguer, PODER – Support and funded 
+ Antonio Martinez, Calle 24 – Support for small business and public schools 
+ Annette Garcia, Mission Housing – Equitable community development 
+ Speaker – Necessity for projects like MAP2030 
+ Carolyn Fang – Displacement  
+ Larissa Pedroncelli – Support 
+ Martha Sanchez – Importance of affordable housing 
+ Eric Arguello, Calle 24 – Continue initiative 
+ Susana Rojas, Calle 24 – Equity 
+ Paloma Tracy – Equity initiative 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Endorsed 
AYES:  
Campbell, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
McGarry 
RESOLUTION: 
21657 
13. 2021-010728CUA 
(G. PANTOJA: (628) 652-7380) 
4994 MISSION STREET – west side between Seneca and Onondaga Streets; Lot 006 in Assessor’s Block 6968 
(District 11) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Sections 202.2, 303, and 720 for the 
establishment of a Cannabis Retail Use (D.B.A. “Basanova, Inc.”) at an existing approximately 1,305 square foot 
tenant space with no on-site consumption of cannabis products within the Excelsior Outer Mission NCD  
(Neighborhood Commercial District) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The Planning 
Department found that the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The 
Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San 
Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
(Continued from Regular hearing on November 14, 2024) 
Disclosure from President So 3:29:47 – 3:30:22 
SPEAKERS: 
= Gabriela Pantoja – Staff report 
+ Gary Gee – Project sponsor presentation 
+ Virginia Fernandez – Will benefit a lot of people especially people with special needs 
+ Speaker – Great addition to the community 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, December 5, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 9 
 
- Yan Sing – Located next to a WIC center, no community meetings 
- Joyce Chen – Owner of the WIC center, impact to children 
- Susana Chen – Bad influence for students 
- Ronaldo – Close to daycare facilities 
+ Speaker – Employment 
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions 
AYES:  
Campbell, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
Williams 
ABSENT: 
McGarry 
MOTION: 
21658 
ADJOURNMENT 4:06 PM 
ADOPTED JANUARY 9, 2025