The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
16. 2024-006735PPS 
 
1324-1326 POWELL STREET – southeast corner of Fisher Alley; Lot 014A in Assessor's Block 0160 (District 3) – 
Informational Presentation for the proposed construction of a housing development project pursuant to 
Government Code Section 65913.4 (SB 423), in an area subject to Government Code Section 65913.4(q). The 
project consists of demolition of the existing structure and replacement with a six-story over basement, 20,045 
square foot mixed-use building with 26 SRO dwelling units and 2,002 square feet of ground floor commercial 
space. A total of 1,300 square feet of open space will be provided at the roof alongside 11 private balconies. The 
project sponsor submitted a notice of intent to construct the project on July 19, 2024. After the hearing, a formal 
application may be submitted following the project sponsor’s review of any public testimony and written 
comments from the hearing. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
SPEAKERS: 
+ Matt Soisson – Project sponsor presentation 
- Speaker – Affordability 
+ Mark Loper – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
15a. 2007.0946GPR-04 
(M. SNYDER: (628) 652-7460) 
CANDLESTICK POINT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT – GENERAL PLAN CONSISTENCY FINDINGS ASSOCIATED WITH 
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AMENDMENTS – The Candlestick Point development project consists of roughly 281 
acres at Candlestick Point and generally encompasses the former Candlestick Park Stadium and parking lot, the 
Candlestick Point State Recreational Area, the Alice Griffith Housing development site, and Assessor’s Blocks 
4917, 4918, 4934, and 4935 – Request for Adoption of Findings of Consistency with the General Plan and the 
eight priority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1 for amendments to both the Bayview Hunters Point 
Redevelopment Plan and the Hunters Point Shipyard Redevelopment Plan. These amendments would: (1) allow 
the transfer of 2,050,000 square feet of office / research and development (R&D) entitlement from Hunters Point 
Shipyard (HPS) to Candlestick Point (CP); (2) allow visitor and entertainment uses throughout most of CP; (3) 
confirm certain commercial uses, such as “maker space”, permitted at HPS, are also permitted at CP; (4) adjust 
Redevelopment Plan time limits;  and (5) adjust certain Redevelopment Plan financing provisions and time 
limits. The amendments would enable the continued implementation of the Candlestick Point Development 
Project, including a re-envisioned Candlestick Center (one of four planned neighborhoods at Candlestick Point) 
as an “Innovation District” that would include approximately 2,800,000 square feet of office, R&D, and other 
similar and supporting uses. Candlestick Point is within the Candlestick Point Activity Node Special Use District, 
the CP Height and Bulk District, and within Zone 1 of Area B of the Bayview Hunters Point Redevelopment 
Project Area.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt Findings of Consistency 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 13 of 14 
 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rachael Tanner – Introduction 
= Mat Snyder – Staff presentation 
= Lila Hussain, OCII – Shipyard presentation 
+ Katrina Kidd – Project sponsor presentation  
+ Speaker – Design presentation  
+ La Shon Walker – Community outreach  
- Francisco Da Costa – Respect remains of the indigenous people, quality of life  
+ Brenda Cordova – We need affordable housing, project is taking too long 
+ Carmen Rodriguez – Affordable housing for low income and seniors 
+ Gabriela Moreno – Prioritize affordable housing 
+ Speaker – Homeownership 
- Joyce – Corruption, contamination 
+ Rudy Gonzales – Delays, create jobs 
+ Rev. Dr. Carolyn Scott – Go forward with the project 
+ Dan Torres – Opportunity, pathway for homeownership 
+ Mel Simmons – Project is very important for contractors  
+ Mauricio Chavez – Work opportunities 
+ Derek – Navy delays 
+ John Anthony – Affordable housing, work opportunities for carpenters  
+ Kimberley Hillebrand – Home 
+ Andrea Baker – Community engagement, created workshops  
+ Shaun – Job opportunities   
+ Trisha Gregory – Get the youth and community in the trades 
+ Kumar – Exciting and long awaited project, jobs, affordable new housing 
+ Jane Natoli – Benefits this project will bring  
+ Kevin Grey – Benefit everyone  
+ John – Community benefits agreement  
+ Brendan Green – Stimulate the local economy  
+ Alex Lansberg – Clean up in the shipyard, value of the project  
+ Corey Smith – Support getting housing built faster 
+ Linda Fadeke Richardson – Economic revitalization 
+ Arande Sterling – Bring economic development  
+ Cornelius Jordan – Advocate community engagement, development design  
+ Aster James – Business opportunities 
+ Dr. Veronica Honnicutt – Investments in Bayview 
+ Niola Gibbs – Job opportunities  
+ Joyce Armstrong - Support  
+ Roberta Achtenberg – Response to comments and questions  
+ Speaker – Response to comments and questions  
+ Matt Gray – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Adopted Findings 
AYES: 
 
Campbell, McGarry, So, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore 
NAYS:  
None 
MOTION: 
21607 
15b. 2007.0946CWP-04 
(M. SNYDER: (628) 652-7460) 
CANDLESTICK POINT DESIGN-FOR-DEVELOPMENT AMENDMENTS – The Candlestick Point development project 
consists of roughly 281 acres at Candlestick Point and generally encompasses the former Candlestick Park 
Stadium and parking lot, the Candlestick Point State Recreational Area, the Alice Griffith Housing development 
site, and Assessor’s Blocks 4917, 4918, 4934, and 4935 – Request to Approve Amendments to the Candlestick 
Point Design-for-Development (D4D). These amendments would provide a framework for the creation of an 
Innovation District by: (1) establishing requirements for a public realm network including the creation of a new 
Central Promenade; (2) increasing allowed heights from a maximum of 120 feet to a maximum of 180 feet; (3) 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 14 of 14 
 
establishing active use requirements for fronting uses and portions of the public realm; (4) establishing 
modulation, articulation and similar requirements for buildings, among other provision. The amendments 
would enable the continued implementation of the Candlestick Point Development Project, including a re-
envisioned Candlestick Center (one of four planned neighborhoods at Candlestick Point) as an “Innovation 
District” that would include approximately 2,800,000 square feet of office, R&D, and other similar and 
supporting uses. Candlestick Point is within the Candlestick Point Activity Node Special Use District, the CP 
Height and Bulk District, and within Zone 1 of Area B of the Bayview Hunters Point Redevelopment Project Area.   
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 15a. 
ACTION: 
Approved Amendments 
AYES: 
 
Campbell, McGarry, So, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore 
NAYS:  
None 
MOTION: 
21608 
ADJOURNMENT 4:15 PM 
ADOPTED SEPTEMBER 26, 2024