The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
10. 2021-005878CWP 
(L. CHEN: (628) 652-7422) 
EXPANDING HOUSING CHOICE (HOUSING ELEMENT ZONING PROGRAM) – Informational Presentation on 
upcoming zoning amendments to implement the Housing Element, in accordance with state requirements. The 
zoning proposal will increase allowable building height and density to enable additional housing production in 
state-designated “Housing Opportunity Areas.” This hearing will focus on an overview of the Community 
Engagement process, an update to the draft Objective Design Standards, and the citywide approach to historic 
preservation as it relates to the zoning program. Subsequent informational hearings in 2024 will focus on other 
topics relevant to the Expanding Housing Choice zoning program. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
SPEAKERS: 
= Rachael Tanner – Introduction 
= Lisa Chen – Staff presentation 
= Rich Sucre – Staff presentation  
= Trent Greenan – Staff presentation  
= Joshua Switzky – Staff presentation  
- Georgia Schuttish – Staff Memo clearly lays out issues. Very important to fully 
complete SF Survey. Critical. Preserving City’s vibrant neighborhood commercial 
areas also critical. Neighborhood Commercial: Commission expressed concern 
about Clement Street. Irving and Noe Valley 24th Streets also concerning. Staff 
Memo says Demolition of multi-unit housing will be “exceedingly rare.” 
Demolitions on Texas Street and Anza Street on 6/13 Agenda. On Day Street, 
Demolition, three units under review. Financial Feasibility Study on Rezoning was 
to be issued last November. Corners of Market/Van Ness? Speculation due to 
anticipated Rezoning may not just be limited to the hight-end sales of swaths of 
Jackson Square and Filmore Street reported in the press. Nightmare: Country 
Garden and Evergrande Outcome of RHNA audit critical. PIPELINE… 50,000 or 
70,000 units? San Francisco should seek credit/praise for what has been approved. 
Even though City not meeting the real need for housing at the lower AMIs. 
- Joe Stephani – Density, lessens the quality of urban life 
+ Corey Smith – Critical to housing goals 
+ Jim Warshell – Survey, state bonus density 
+ Christopher Roach – Outreach, continue to engage with community 
- Justin – Effects to small business 
- Jan Diamond – Focus on pipeline projects 
- Speaker – Survey, affordable housing, transportation corridors  
- George – Crowded 
- Bob Hurd – Mayor’s letter, state density bonus 
+ Eric Munsing – Clarity how state bonus density will interact 
- Jonathan Mead – Free market, consequences of unregulated upzoning, 
displacement  
- Isaac Santiago – Public housing tenants 
- Phil Dillard – Engage with all the people in the community 
- Kath Tsakalakis – Supply and demand 
- Gale – Wind, commercial corridors, living alley 
- Erin Donnely – Many people still do know about the changes 
- Ozzy Rohm – Feasibility  
- Kathleen Gee – Will change the nature of our city, affordability  
- Ian Cobalt – Affordability   

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, June 6, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 11 of 11 
 
- Stan Hayes – Unintended consequences 
= Tim Rye – Skilled trade 
- Carolyn Kennedy – Will not work, affordable housing 
= Sharon – Low income, BIPOC community 
- Daniella Kirshenbaum – Address genuine affordability and character 
= Marlane Morgan – Damage to small corridors and historic districts 
+ Jane Natoli – Expand where people can build 
+ Annie Fryman – Conforms with state laws, rezoning map 
- Courtney Damkroger – Rent control, affordable housing 
- Aurora Robinson – Rent-control 
- Kevin McCarthy – Reach out to the communities that you are looking to change 
+ Bridget Malley – Historic districts 
- Lori Brooke – Community outreach 
+ Robert Fruchtman – More fair housing 
+ Speaker - Affordability  
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
= Elizabeth Watty – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
ADJOURNMENT 4:40 PM 
ADOPTED JUNE 20, 2024