The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
11. 2019-004879CWP 
(D. NGO: (628) 652-7591) 
WATERFRONT RESILIENCE PROGRAM – Staff will provide an Informational Presentation to the Commission on 
the San Francisco Waterfront Coastal Flood Study (Flood Study). The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), in 
collaboration with the City and County of San Francisco, has reached an important milestone in the Flood 
Study—the release of the Draft Plan on January 26, 2024. The Draft Plan is a major step forward in securing 
federal funds to address the waterfront’s flood and earthquake risks for the 7.5 miles of waterfront within the 
Port of San Francisco’s jurisdiction, from Aquatic Park to Heron’s Head. It indicates approximately where to build 
coastal flood defenses and how much sea level rise future coastal flood defenses will manage before they need 
to be adapted to higher water levels. If approved by Congress, the federal government will pay up to 65% of the 
funding to implement the plan—leading to potentially billions in federal funding to reduce coastal flood risk 
from sea level rise and make related seismic, stormwater flooding, and waterfront improvements. San Francisco 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, March 14, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 9 
 
will need to identify multiple sources of local and State funding to match this federal funding. The Draft Plan and 
alternatives are evaluated in a National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). 
USACE and the City are seeking public comment on the Draft Plan and Environmental Review through March 29, 
2024. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
SPEAKERS: 
= Danielle Ngo – Staff report 
+ Adam Varat – Port of SF presentation 
= Georgia Schuttish – Article regarding water contamination in Hunter’s Point, 
amount needed for affordable housing 
+ Sue Hestor – Rezoning, request presentation on the western part of the city, what 
is the sea level rise on the oceanside 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented