The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
12a. 2007.0903PCA-03MAP-03 
(J. LOOK: (628) 652-7461) 
TREASURE ISLAND AND YERBA BUENA ISLAND PROJECT – Planning Code and Zoning Map Amendments – An 
ordinance, sponsored by Mayor London Breed and Supervisor Matt Dorsey – the area for all of Treasure Island 
and Yerba Buena Island (District 6) – Request for amendments to the Planning Code to revise the Treasure 
Island/Yerba Buena Island Special Use District (SUD), to update the Treasure Island Bulk and Massing figure; to 
provide for additional circumstances that may authorize Minor Modifications to the standards in the SUD; and to 
modify the referral process for amending the Design for Development document.  The project also seeks to revise 
the Zoning Map to change height districts in Treasure Island, to provide for five additional feet in certain areas, 
and to remove the “Special Height District” designation from two easements adjacent to Buildings 2 and 3.  
Commission action would also make findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies 
of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, 
Section 302, and would affirm the Planning Department’s decision to prepare an addendum to the Final 
Environmental Impact report issued for the Treasure Island / Yerba Buena Project. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve 
SPEAKERS: 
= Jessica Look – Staff report 
+ Madison Tam, Legislative aide to Sup. Dorsey – Introduction to the ordinance 
+ AnMarie Rodgers – Treasure Island Development Authority presentation 
+ Leigh Lutenski – OEWD presentation 
+ Chris Meany – Project sponsor presentation 
+ Mauricio Chavez – Local 22 Carpenters Union 
+ Oswaldo – Carpenters Union, will create work for union laborers 
+ Sherry Williams – Affordable housing projects 
+ Nela Gonzales – Training programs 
+ Elizabeth Kuwada – Mercy Housing 
+ Pedro Mendes – NorCal Carpenters Union, enhance quality of life 
- Jeff Kline – Risky project, radioactive items, increasing flood risk and storm damage 
+ Jamie Querubin, TIDA Finance Manager – Response to comments and questions 
+ Robert Beck, TIDA Director - Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Approved  
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
RESOLUTION: 
21541 
12b. 2007.0903GEN-05 
(J. LOOK: (628) 652-7461) 
TREASURE ISLAND AND YERBA BUENA ISLAND PROJECT – Request for Amendments to the Treasure Island and 
Yerba Buena Island Design for Development - the area for all of Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island (District 
6). The proposal seeks to amend the standards, pursuant to Section 249.52. based on lessons learned in the first 
development subphase, address unforeseen constraints arising from updates to the California Building Code and 
site conditions on the islands. Commission action would also make findings of consistency with the General Plan 
and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and would affirm the Planning Department’s 
decision to prepare an addendum to the Final Environmental Impact report issued for the Treasure Island / Yerba 
Buena Project. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 12a. 
ACTION:  
Approved 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 13 of 15 
 
RESOLUTION: 
21542 
12c. 2007.0903DVA-02 
(J. LOOK: (628) 652-7461) 
TREASURE ISLAND AND YERBA BUENA ISLAND PROJECT – Request for Amendments to the Development 
Agreement (“DA”) between the City and County of San Francisco and “Treasure Island Development Corporation 
LLC” in association with the Treasure Island/Yerba Buena Island Project. The proposal seeks to amend the 
Financing Plan exhibit to the Development Agreement, pursuant to Administrative Code Section 56.15, to 
conform with proposed changes being made to the Financing Plan as attached to the Disposition and 
Development Agreement (“DDA”). Amendments to the Financing Plan describe the City’s intent to accelerate 
revenues into the project for the purpose of ensuring Stage 2 of the project is financially feasible and proceeds. 
The proposed amendment makes certain other changes to DA Exhibit A, Project Site, to reflect revisions to the 
Marina lease boundaries; DA Exhibit B, Legal Description, to reflect revisions to the Marina lease boundaries; and, 
DA Exhibit C, Project Approvals, to reflect revisions to the Project Approvals consistent with amendments to 
certain documents as included in the DDA Amendment. The subject site is currently with in the Treasure Island/ 
Yerba Buena Special Use District (SUD) and 25-TI – 450 Flex Zone-TI Height and Bulk District and 35-Low Rise YBI 
– 75-Mid Rise YBI Height and Bulk District.  Commission action would also make findings of consistency with the 
General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and would affirm the Planning 
Department’s decision to prepare an addendum to the Final Environmental Impact report issued for the Treasure 
Island / Yerba Buena Project. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 12a. 
ACTION: 
Approved as Amended to include a Finding read into the record by Commission 
President Diamond, with a reference to the LEED Platinum Certification for 
“Neighborhood Design” 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
RESOLUTION: 
21543 
13. 2020-005089PRJ 
(K. AGNIHOTRI: (628) 652-7454) 
3501 CESAR CHAVEZ ST (MISSION BERNAL CARE COMPLEX) – Informational Presentation – Staff and project 
sponsor will update the Commission on the final design for the Medical Office Building. The Mission Bernal 
Campus Medical Office Building (MOB) is a five-story building, measuring approximately 129,000 sq ft, including 
health services/medical office space, retail and parking on four below-ground levels including approximately 
210 parking spaces. As part of the project approval, previously approved with Development Agreement (DA) 
with California Pacific Medical Center (CPMC), the CPMC is required to provide an informational presentation to 
the Planning Commission to update them on the final design for the Medical Office Building (MOB). 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
SPEAKERS: 
= Kalyani Agnihotri – Staff report 
+ Karthik Ramadurai – Project sponsor presentation 
- Robert Kollman – Guerrero park in terrible disrepair  
+ Bahar – Response to comments and questions 
= Liz Watty – Response to comments and questions 
= Elizabeth Purl – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Reviewed and Commented 
14. 2021-010333CUA 
(C. ENCHILL: (628) 652-7551) 
600 20TH STREET – northwest corner of Illinois Street; Lot 002 in Assessor’s Block 4058 (District 10) – Request for 
Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317 to remove an Unauthorized 
Dwelling Unit (UDU) to allow demolition of the existing two-story, 9,200 sq ft commercial building and 
construction of a five-story, 67-ft 9-in tall, 24,961 sq ft mixed-use building containing 5,214 sq ft ground-floor 
laboratory use (non-life science), 10,822 sq ft office use (second and third floors), 4,077 sq ft arts activities use 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 14 of 15 
 
(fourth floor), 4,077 sq. ft. residential use consisting of one three-bedroom dwelling unit (fifth floor), and 
containing one residential off-street parking space, one non-residential off-street loading space, four Class 1 
bicycle parking spaces, and eight Class 2 bicycle parking spaces within a UMU Zoning District . The Project Site is 
located within an UMU (Urban Mixed Use) Zoning District, Fringe Financial Service Restricted Use District and 68-
X Height and Bulk District. The Planning Department issued a general plan evaluation pursuant to the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for 
the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Charles Enchill – Staff report 
+ John Kevlin – Project sponsor presentation 
+ Will Mollard – Design presentation 
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions as amended by Staff 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
MOTION: 
21544 
G. DISCRETIONARY REVIEW CALENDAR  
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR 
requestor team; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the DR 
requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
15a. 2020-004486DRP-02 
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
820 LAGUNA HONDA BOULEVARD – west side between Rockaway Avenue and Idora Avenue; Lot 014 in 
Assessor’s Block 2916 (District 7) – Request for Discretionary Review of Building Permit No. 2022.0503.3449 to 
legalize a three-story, 10’ x 25’ rear extension to a single-family building that was constructed without the benefit 
of a permit existing two-story over basement, single-family building within a RH-1(D) (Residential House- Single 
Family – Detached) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. Planning Code Section 134 requires the 
subject property to maintain a rear yard equivalent to 30 percent of the lot depth, which ranges from 23 feet 9 
inches to 28 feet 7 inches for the subject property. A portion of the building proposed to be legalized extends 
into the required rear yard. Therefore, a variance is required. The Planning Department found that the project is 
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval 
Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff report 
- Tony Hall – DR 1 presentation  
- Karen Tarantola – DR 2 presentation 
+ Steven Hammond – Project sponsor presentation 
+ Audrey Pulliam – Issue is more situational, neighbors used to be friends 
- Michael Antonini – Sanborn maps 
- Steven Mario Pinto – Corruption in the approval process 
- Carl Windarf – Undermines integrity of zoning laws 
- Fr. Mike Crane – Property value, no deck 
+ Speaker – Situational, supports variance 
+ Trisha McCallum – Situational, supports variance 
+ Bill Maher – Supports variance, falling out between friends 
+ Ralph Nunez – Falling out between friends 
+ Alonzo Bennett – To spend more time with the kids 
+ Eileen Bennet – Situational 
+ Sheila – Supports variance 
+ Speaker – Proposed fence height 
+ Peter – No political favors 
+ Bobby Kohlman – Integrity of the process 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, April 4, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 15 of 15 
 
- Matt Gonzales – Merit, planning code 
+ Nora Hall – DR rebuttal 
= Corey Teague – Response to comments and questions  
= Kristen Jensen – Response to comments and questions  
+ Bill O’Keefe – Response to comments and questions  
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Took DR approving the BPA, and adding condition that an NSR be recorded to 
require any BP for exterior construction would require neighborhood notice. 
AYES:  
Braun, Imperial, Moore, Diamond 
NAYS:  
Williams, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
None 
DRA: 
 
854 
15b. 2020-004486VAR 
(J. HORN: (628) 652-7366) 
820 LAGUNA HONDA BOULEVARD – west side between Rockaway Avenue and Idora Avenue; Lot 014 of 
Assessor’s Block 2916 (District 7) – Request for Variance to address the Planning Code requirements for rear yard 
[PC 134] to legalize a three-story, 10’ x 25’ rear extension to a single-family building that was constructed without 
the benefit of a permit to an existing two-story over basement, single-family building within a RH-1(D) 
(Residential House- Single Family - Detached) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 15a. 
ACTION: 
ZA closed the PH and indicated an intent to Grant, with a condition that any 
additional rear construction would trigger a Staff-initiated DR. 
ADJOURNMENT 4:46 PM 
ADOPTED APRIL 25, 2024