The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
13. 2024-008634PCA 
(V. FLORES: (628) 652-7525) 
INCLUSIONARY HOUSING ORDINANCE [BF 240873] – Planning Code Amendments – Ordinance, sponsored by 
Mayor Breed, to amend the Planning Code to permit the use of California Debt Limit Allocation Committee tax-
exempt bond financing and tax credits under the Tax Credit Allocation Committee for certain affordable 
housing projects that provide additional affordable units or deeper affordability levels than required by the 
Inclusionary Housing Ordinance; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California 
Environmental Quality Act; making findings of public necessity, convenience, and general welfare findings 
under Planning Code, Section 302; and making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight 
priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications 
SPEAKERS: 
= Aaron Starr – Staff report 
- John Avalos – Not a significant benefit overall  
+ William Wilcox, MOHCD – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Adopted a Recommendation for Approval with Staff modifications 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Braun, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
Williams 
ABSENT: 
Imperial 
RESOLUTION: 
21634 
14. 2024-008633PCA 
(A. MERLONE: (628) 652-7534) 
524 AND 530 HOWARD STREET – TRANSIT CENTER DISTRICT OPEN SPACE IMPACT FEE WAIVER FOR 524 
HOWARD STREET, LLC [BF 240879] – Planning Code Amendments – Ordinance, introduced by Supervisor 
Dorsey, amending the Planning Code to waive the Transit Center District Open Space Impact Fee for 524 
Howard Street, LLC’s development project at 524 and 530 Howard Street in recognition of the project’s 
proposed construction of a pedestrian bridge connecting to the Transbay Transit Center’s rooftop park; 
affirming the Planning Commission’s determination under the California Environmental Quality Act; and 
making findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 
101.1, and findings of public necessity, convenience, and general welfare findings under Planning Code Section 
302. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 24, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 8 of 10 
 
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval 
SPEAKERS: 
= Audrey Merlone – Staff report 
+ Madison Tam, Legislative aide to Sup Dorsey – Introduction to the ordinance 
ACTION:  
Adopted a Recommendation for Approval 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
Imperial 
RESOLUTION: 
21635 
16. 2023-011096CUA 
(H. SAMUELS: (628) 652-7545) 
225 SAN LEANDRO WAY – east side between Monterey Boulevard and Darien Way; Lot 015 in Assessor's Block 
3253 (District 7) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization, pursuant to Planning Code Section 186.3, 209.1, 
303 and 710 to establish a General Entertainment use on the subject property (d.b.a. The Gregangelo Museum) 
while retaining the existing single-family residence. The subject property is designated as San Francisco City 
Landmark No. 318. Per Planning Code Section 186.3, a City Landmark within RH Zoning District may seek 
Conditional Use Authorization to authorize any use listed as a Principal or Conditional Use permitted on the 
ground floor in the NC-1 Zoning District. General Entertainment is a principally permitted use on the ground 
floor in the NC-1 Zoning District. The subject property is within a RH-1(D) (Residential, House Detached) Zoning 
District and 40-X Height and Bulk District.  The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the 
project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve with Conditions 
SPEAKERS: 
= Heather Samuels– Staff report 
+ John Bradley – Project sponsor presentation 
- Speaker – Concerns regarding authorization from RH-1 to NC-1 
+ Josh – Museum provides the most artistic experience 
+ Indra – Employees are respectful of the neighbors 
+ Heather Rodgers – A safe harbor for many 
+ Bella – Owner and team’s leadership and support is very vital to the arts 
+ Speaker – Visited the museum many times, true mirror of the soul of SF 
+ Speaker – Practitioners of healing hearts 
+ James Napoli – Will not affect the neighborhood negatively 
+ Angelica – Diversity and culture 
+ Zoey – Rare and unique 
+ Cecilia – Mentors emerging artists 
+ Tatyana – Life changing experience, have not experienced any negative impacts 
+ Maya – Amazing house, beautiful community 
+ Judy – Caring and unique 
+ Carter Brooks – Provides peace 
+ Bettina Devin – Influence on the artists 
+ Kai Kenichu – Place of support, helps with mental health 
+ Kate – Contributed to the neighborhood, vibrancy of SF 
+ David Cost – Uniqueness of the place 
+ Lucy – Had a very nice experience 
+ Angela Bennett – Healing and magical place 
+ Susan Brown – Supports the arts 
+ Yuko Terasawa – Very respectful neighbor 
+ Anthony Rawlins Mullin – Support 
+ Bryan – Genuine city gem 
+ Andres Patino – Not a typical museum, connects and engages 
+ Speaker – Wonderful person  
+ Nick Brentley – Consider art 
+ Speaker – Good neighbor 
+ Speaker – Community building, good neighbor 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 24, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 10 
 
+ Tom Duffy – HOA actions 
+ Ian Faatar – Mode of operation and inclusiveness 
+ Steven Raspa – Not a menace, embed arts and culture in the city 
= Richard Kurylo – Background on the Legacy Business Registry application 
+ Brian Whiting – Grateful for the Gregangelo 
+ Marcelo DeFreides – No complaints from neighbor, HOA issue 
+ Darlene Popovich – Magical place, man of magic 
+ Greg Angelo – Owner 
= Elizabeth Watty – Response to comments and questions 
= Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions as amended by Staff 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
ABSENT: 
Imperial 
MOTION: 
21636 
17. 2024-005356CUA 
(V. PAGE: (628) 652-7396) 
229-233 WHITNEY STREET – east side between Fairmount and Chenery Streets; Lot 025 in Assessor's Block 6685 
(District 8) – Request for Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 317 to 
legalize the demolition of a two-story residential building with three dwelling units (as defined under the 
Planning Code) and construct a four-story, approximately 4,700 gross square-foot building with two dwelling 
units and an attached, State-mandated Accessory Dwelling Unit in the rear yard, three off-street automobile 
parking spaces, and three Class 1 bicycle parking spaces within a RH-2 (Residential House, Two-Family) Zoning 
District, Central Neighborhoods Large Residence SUD (Special Use District), and 40-X Height and Bulk District. 
The Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA). The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, 
pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Disapprove 
(Continued from Regular hearing on October 17, 2024) 
NOTE: On October 17, 2024, after hearing and closing public comment, adopted a Motion of Intent to 
Disapprove and Continue to October 24, 2024, with direction to the Sponsor by a vote of +6 -0 (Imperial absent). 
SPEAKERS: 
= Vincent Page – Staff report 
+ Kate McGee – Project sponsor presentation 
- Georgia Schuttish – Illegal demolition 
- Kevin Kearney – Lightwell 
- Michael Lozeau – Consider only proposal 2 and deny 
- Speaker – SB 330 does not apply 
- Adam Cross – Use the May 2023 design 
- Speaker – Consider a code compliant conversion, use May 2023 
- Noelle Spurgeon – Lack of willingness to engage with the neighbors in good faith 
- Speaker – Debris dumped in their driveway, deny current design 
- Norma – Afraid for her health 
- David Rudolph – Current proposed plans ignored the concerns of neighbors 
+ Martin Kellog – Response to comments and questions 
+ Laura Strazzo – Response to comments and questions 
= Elizabeth Watty – Response to comments and questions 
+ Ryan Patterson – Response to comments and questions 
= Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney – Response to comments and questions 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Approved with Conditions as amended to include: 
1. Eliminate of the fourth floor; 
2. Combine the north lightwells with a depth of five feet; and 
3. Frosted lightwell windows on the second floor. 
AYES:  
McGarry, Williams, Braun, Moore, So 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, October 24, 2024 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 10 
 
NAYS:  
Campbell 
ABSENT: 
Imperial 
MOTION: 
21637 
 
ADJOURNMENT 3:55 PM  
ADOPTED NOVEMBER 7, 2024