The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
12a. 2007.0903PCA-03MAP-03 
(J. LOOK: (628) 652-7461) 
TREASURE ISLAND AND YERBA BUENA ISLAND PROJECT – Planning Code and Zoning Map Amendments – An 
ordinance, sponsored by Mayor London Breed and Supervisor Matt Dorsey – the area for all of Treasure Island 
and Yerba Buena Island (District 6) – Request for amendments to the Planning Code to revise the Treasure 
Island/Yerba Buena Island Special Use District (SUD), to update the Treasure Island Bulk and Massing figure; to 
provide for additional circumstances that may authorize Minor Modifications to the standards in the SUD; and to 
modify the referral process for amending the Design for Development document.  The project also seeks to revise 
the Zoning Map to change height districts in Treasure Island, to provide for five additional feet in certain areas, 
and to remove the “Special Height District” designation from two easements adjacent to Buildings 2 and 3.  
Commission action would also make findings of consistency with the General Plan, and the eight priority policies 
of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare under Planning Code, 
Section 302, and would affirm the Planning Department’s decision to prepare an addendum to the Final 
Environmental Impact report issued for the Treasure Island / Yerba Buena Project. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve 
SPEAKERS: 
= Jessica Look – Staff report 
+ Madison Tam, Legislative aide to Sup. Dorsey – Introduction to the ordinance 
+ AnMarie Rodgers – Treasure Island Development Authority presentation 
+ Leigh Lutenski – OEWD presentation 
+ Chris Meany – Project sponsor presentation 
+ Mauricio Chavez – Local 22 Carpenters Union 
+ Oswaldo – Carpenters Union, will create work for union laborers 
+ Sherry Williams – Affordable housing projects 
+ Nela Gonzales – Training programs 
+ Elizabeth Kuwada – Mercy Housing 
+ Pedro Mendes – NorCal Carpenters Union, enhance quality of life 
- Jeff Kline – Risky project, radioactive items, increasing flood risk and storm damage 
+ Jamie Querubin, TIDA Finance Manager – Response to comments and questions 
+ Robert Beck, TIDA Director - Response to comments and questions 
ACTION:  
Approved  
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 
RESOLUTION: 
21541 
12b. 2007.0903GEN-05 
(J. LOOK: (628) 652-7461) 
TREASURE ISLAND AND YERBA BUENA ISLAND PROJECT – Request for Amendments to the Treasure Island and 
Yerba Buena Island Design for Development - the area for all of Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island (District 
6). The proposal seeks to amend the standards, pursuant to Section 249.52. based on lessons learned in the first 
development subphase, address unforeseen constraints arising from updates to the California Building Code and 
site conditions on the islands. Commission action would also make findings of consistency with the General Plan 
and the eight priority policies of Planning Code, Section 101.1, and would affirm the Planning Department’s 
decision to prepare an addendum to the Final Environmental Impact report issued for the Treasure Island / Yerba 
Buena Project. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Approve 
SPEAKERS: 
Same as item 12a. 
ACTION:  
Approved 
AYES:  
Williams, Braun, Imperial, Koppel, Moore, Diamond 
ABSENT: 
None 

San Francisco Planning Commission