The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
11. 2024-004085DRM 
(G. GUNTHER: (628) 652-7607) 
1 LA AVANZADA – Sutro Tower; Lot 003 in Assessor’s Block 2724 (District 7) – Request for Mandatory 
Discretionary Review, pursuant to Planning Code Section 306.9, of Building Permit Application No. 
2024.0118.4187, proposing the voluntary removal of existing exterior horizontal cladding panels and 
replacement with new exterior horizontal cladding panels with non-leaded paint on levels two, three, and four 
of the tower within a RH-1(D) (Residential, House – One-Family) Zoning District, the Family and Senior Housing 
Opportunity SUD (Special Use District), and 40-X Height and Bulk District. 
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Conditions 
(Continued from Canceled hearing on February 20, 2025)  
Disclosures from Commissioner Braun and Campbell 
SPEAKERS: 
= Gretel Gunther – Staff report 
+ Kristen Thall Peters – Project sponsor presentation 
= Shalin Chin, Midtown Homeowners Assoc. – DRM being on the Consent Calendar 
= Walter Kaplan, Forest Knolls Neighborhood – DRM being on the Consent Calendar 
= Kirsten Jensen, City Attorney – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Took DR and Approved with Conditions 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 
NAYS:  
None 
DRA: 
  
866 
17. 2024-009753PCA 
(M. TAYLOR: (628) 652-7352) 
WINDOW REPLACEMENT STANDARDS [BOARD FILE NO. 241021] – Planning Code Amendment – Ordinance 
introduced by Supervisor Melgar amending the Planning Code to limit restrictions on window replacement 
projects in certain buildings; affirming the Planning Department’s determination under the California 
Environmental Quality Act; making findings of consistency with the General Plan and the eight priority policies 
of Planning Code Section 101.1; and making findings of public necessity, convenience, and welfare under 
Planning Code Section 302.  
Preliminary Recommendation: Adopt a Recommendation for Approval with Modifications  
(Continued from Regular hearing on February 6, 2025) 
SPEAKERS: 
= Michelle Taylor – Staff presentation 
+ Sup. Myrna Melgar – Introduction to the ordinance 
- Michael King – Impact to local small business, window installations, cost  
= Courtney Damkroger – Coordinated with the Objective Design Standards, HPC 
= Bridget Maley – HPC review, Preservation Objective Design Standards 
+ Garren Checkley – Cost of living, Restoring public trust 
- Bruce Bowen – Older buildings, require more outreach 
+ Patrick Hoffman – Environmental reasons, vinyl vs wooden windows 
- Katherine Howard – Send to HPC for review 
- Georgia Schuttish – Existing opening, HPC review 
= Aaron Starr – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Adopted a Recommendation for Approval with Staff modifications 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 27, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 9 of 10 
 
AYES:  
Campbell, McGarry, Williams, Braun, Imperial, So 
NAYS:  
Moore 
MOTION: 
21692  
18. 2021-005878CWP 
(M. LEON-FARRERA: (628) 652-7474) 
TENANT PROTECTIONS: REPLACEMENT UNITS & TENANT RIGHTS – Informational Presentation – The purpose of 
this informational hearing is to provide an overview of forthcoming citywide tenant protection legislation that 
will be introduced in connection with the Housing Element rezoning program, Expanding Housing Choice. The 
draft legislation aims to codify and improve implementation of California Senate Bill 330 (SB330), including 
provisions for unit replacement and tenant protections for projects that propose to demolish existing housing 
units. The Planning Department is seeking feedback from the Commission to ensure that the proposal 
effectively balances housing production, housing preservation, tenant protections, and community needs. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
SPEAKERS: 
+ Priya Prabhakar – REP presentation 
+ Amalia Macias-Laventure – REP presentation 
 
 
 
= Lisa Chen – Staff presentation 
= Malena Leon-Farrera – Staff presentation 
+ Don Masumi – Underserved community 
+ Fred Sherburn-Zimmer, Housing Rights Community SF – Landlords 
+ Ozzy Rohm, SF Tenants Union – Demolitions vs remodels 
+ Katherine Howard, NUSF – Commend Ozzy Rohm 
+ Ramon Bonifacio, Somcan – Tenant counselor, support the demand as outlined 
+ Ann Lim – Tenant counselor, tenants’ struggles 
- Virginia Parker – Rent controlled apartment, upzoning 
- Bruce Bowen – Vancouver 
+ PJ Eugenio, Somcan – For residents not for developers 
+ Zachary Frial, Somcan – Displacement due to upzoning 
+ Anne, SF Gray Panthers – Enforcement 
+ Aileen Mejia, HRCSF – Displacements 
+ Sydney Peterson – Small businesses 
+ Patrick Hoffman – Rezoning plan 
+ Kathy Lipscomb, REP SF – Below market rents, no evictions 
+ Steve Lee – Evictions 
+ Suzzanne Martin – Rent controlled apartment, upzoning 
+ John Avalos – Housing crisis 
+ Barbara Skinner – Preserve historic buildings 
+ Reina – Displacements 
+ Joseph Smooke – Acknowledgements 
+ Speaker – Tenant counselling, data  
+ Breanna Morales, HAC – SB330, tenant rights to remain and return 
+ Richard Kurylo – Parcels to be upzoned, assistance 
+ Ocean Blue – Seniors and disabled protection 
+ Shantal Laberinto, REP SF – Land banking 
+ Catherine Petrin – Inequality 
+ Georgia Schuttish – The heart of Tenant Protection is regulating/preventing 
Demolitions. Puzzling that the Planning Commission is ceding to DBI regarding the 
definition of Demolition since the Building Code has no definition of Demolition and 
the Planning Code does. Please do not allow another loophole. See emails February 
21st, 23rd and 25th. Section 317 defines Demolition. DBI has forms. Commission has 
legislative authority to adjust Calcs protecting tenants, preserving existing housing 
for current and future tenants w/rent control or at lower AMIs. Protect Flats/UDUs. 
The Commission has knowledge and skill to appropriately and accurately apply 317 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, February 27, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 10 of 10 
 
Findings. Section 317(a) Findings. San Francisco faces a continuing shortage of 
affordable housing. There is a high ratio of rental to ownership tenure among the 
City's residents. The General Plan recognizes that existing housing is the greatest 
stock of rental and financially accessible residential units, and is a resource in need 
of protection. 
+ Ana Cristina Arana – Equity actions 
+ Bridget Maley – Housing production, mayor’s participation 
+ Paulie Marshall, AHA – Demolitions and displacements 
+ Courtney Damkroger, NUSF – Upzoning and density decontrol 
+ Laurie Brooke, NUSF – Tenant displacement, unoccupied units  
+ Diane Ruiz, REP SF -  Stories of tenant displacement 
+ Claire Mills – RHNA  
+ Mark Norton – Profit 
+ Mike McCarthy – Initiatives 
+ Mitchell, HAC – Demolitions 
+ Theresa Flandrich – Support demands 
+ Sue Hestor – Support 
= Rachael Tanner – Response to comments and questions 
= Joey Koomas, Rent Board – Response to comments and questions 
= Kate Conner – Response to comments and questions 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
19.  
(K. CONNER: (628) 652-7535) 
STATE HOUSING LAWS – Informational Presentation on State Housing Laws passed in the 2024 legislative 
session. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
SPEAKERS: 
= Kate Conner – Staff presentation 
= Georgia Schuttish – SB330, demolition definition, Day Street project 
= Sue Hestor – Outreach on amendments 
= Elizabeth Watty – Response to comments and questions 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
ADJOURNMENT 5:06 PM 
ADOPTED MARCH 13, 2025