The Commission Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; when applicable, followed by a presentation 
of the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the project sponsor team includes: 
the sponsor(s) or their designee, lawyers, architects, engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
10. 2020-009640OTH 
(C. DE MESA: (628) 652-7476) 
RACIAL AND SOCIAL EQUITY ACTION PLAN – Informational Presentation – Staff will provide the Commission 
with an update on the Department’s Racial and Social Equity Action Plan (“Equity Plan”), highlighting key 
accomplishments and progress since its Phase 1 adoption in 2019. The update will also introduce two new focus 
areas—Equitable Planning and Community Engagement—which complete the development of the Equity 
Plan. Staff will seek feedback on the alignment of proposed strategies with the Department’s equity goals, 
additional areas for prioritization, and considerations to ensure the plan’s implementation is actionable and 
measurable. The updated Equity Plan, incorporating Commission feedback, will return for adoption at a future 
hearing in Spring 2025.  
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational  
SPEAKERS: 
= Carla De Mesa – Staff presentation 
+ Del Seymour, Code Tenderloin – Tenderloin District 
+ Mary Travis-Allen – American Indian Cultural District 
+ William Ortiz Cartajena – Mission District 
+ Majeid Crawford, New Leadership Foundation –Fillmore District 
+ Mahsa Hakimi – Castro LGBTQ Cultural District  
+ Raquel Redondiez, SOMA Pilipinas – Filipino Cultural Heritage District  
+ Chevonne – Segregated diversity, importance of culture and family 
+ Tyree – Celebrate the Tenderloin 
+ Dennis – Tenderloin  
= Miriam Chion – Response to comments and questions 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 15 of 16 
 
= Rachael Tanner – Response to comments and questions 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
= Lisa Gibson – Response to comments and questions 
= Rich Sucre – Response to comments and questions 
= Liz Watty – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
11. 2024-011329PPS 
 
1474 SOUTH VAN NESS AVENUE –west side of between 25th and 26th Streets; Lot 011 in Assessor's Block 6527 
(District 9) – Informational Presentation for the proposed construction of a housing development project 
pursuant to Government Code Section 65913.4 (SB 423), in an area subject to Government Code section 
65913.4(q). The project consists of demolishing two existing residential buildings, containing two dwelling 
units, and relocating a portion of the front facade fronting on South Van Ness Avenue. The project would 
construct a new six-story residential building with eight dwelling units and a two-story single-family home for 
a total of nine dwelling units.  The project sponsor submitted a notice of intent to construct the project on 
December 17, 2024. After the hearing and upon completion of tribal consultation, a formal application may be 
submitted following the project sponsor’s review of any public testimony and written comments from the 
hearing. 
Preliminary Recommendation: None – Informational 
SPEAKERS: 
+ Riyad Ghannam –Project sponsor presentation 
- Barbara Heffernan, Neighborhood SF – Concern to heights and density 
+ Brianna Morales, HAC – Positive change 
- Richard Kurylo – State laws 
= Rich Hillis – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Reviewed and Commented 
G. DISCRETIONARY REVIEW CALENDAR  
The Commission Discretionary Review Hearing Procedures provide for presentations by staff; followed by the DR 
requestor team; followed by the project sponsor team; followed by public comment. Please be advised that the DR 
requestor and project sponsor teams include: the DR requestor and sponsor or their designee, lawyers, architects, 
engineers, expediters, and/or other advisors. 
12. 2024-000521DRP 
(D. WINSLOW: (628) 652-7335) 
411 CLIPPER STREET – south side between Castro and Diamond Streets; Lot 046 in Assessor’s Block 6555 (District 
8) – Request for Discretionary Review of Planning Application No. 2024-000521PRJ for the demolition of a one-
story over basement single family house and new construction of a three-story over basement, two-unit 
building within a RH-2 (Residential-House, Two Family) Zoning District and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The 
Planning Department found that the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). 
The Commission’s action constitutes the Approval Action for the project for the purposes of CEQA, pursuant to 
San Francisco Administrative Code Section 31.04(h). 
Preliminary Recommendation: Take Discretionary Review and Approve with Modifications 
(Continued from Regular hearing on December 12, 2024) 
SPEAKERS: 
= David Winslow – Staff report 
- Scott Emblidge – DR presentation 
+ Marian – Project sponsor presentation 
- Brian Elliot – Size and bulk, light and privacy is still an issue 
- Tom Dunworth – Size is out of scale 
- Speaker – Scale and neighborhood impact, privacy, misuse of zoning rules 
= Austin Yang, Deputy City Attorney – Response to comments and questions 
ACTION: 
Took DR and Approved with Staff modifications 
AYES:  
Campbell, Williams, Braun, Imperial, Moore, So 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Meeting Minutes 
Page 16 of 16 
 
NAYS:  
McGarry 
ABSENT: 
None   
DRA: 
  
865 
ADJOURNMENT 4:28 PM 
ADOPTED FEBRUARY 6, 2025